77 126. Stationary vehicles.—No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall cause or allow the vehicle to remain stationary in any public place, unless there is in the driver’s seat a person duly licensed to drive the vehicle or unless the mechanism has been stopped and a brake or brakes applied or such other measures taken as to ensure that the vehicle cannot accidentally be put in motion in the absence of the driver. 127. Removal of motor vehicles abandoned or left unattended on a public place.—1[(1) Where any motor vehicle is abandoned, or left unattended, on a public place for ten hours or more or is parked in a place where parking is legally prohibited, its removal by a towing service or its immobilisations by any means including wheel clamping may be authorised by a police officer in uniform having jurisdiction.] (2) Where an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burnt or partially dismantled vehicle is creating a traffic hazard, because of its position in relation to the 2[public place], or its physical appearance is causing the impediment to the traffic, its immediate removal from the 1[public place] by a towing service may be authorised by a police officer having jurisdiction. (3) Where a vehicle is authorised to be removed under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) by a police officer, the owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for all towing costs, besides any other penalty. 128. Safety measures for drivers and pillion riders.—(1) No driver of a two-wheeled motorcycle shall carry more than one person in addition to himself on the motorcycle and no such person shall be carried otherwise than sitting on a proper seat securely fixed to the motorcycle behind the driver’s seat with appropriate safety measures. (2) In addition to the safety measures mentioned in sub-section (1), the Central Government may, prescribe other safety measures for the drivers of two-wheeled motorcycles and pillion riders thereon. 3[129. Wearing of protective headgear.— Every person, above four years of age, driving or riding or being carried on a motorcycle of any class or description shall, while in a public place, wear protective headgear conforming to such standards as may be prescribed by the Central Government: Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply to a person who is a Sikh, if, while driving or riding on the motorcycle, in a public place, he is wearing a turban: Provided further that the Central Government may by rules provide for measures for the safety of children below four years of age riding or being carried on a motorcycle. Explanation.— “Protective headgear” means a helmet which,— (a) by virtue of its shape, material and construction, could reasonably be expected to afford to the person driving or riding on a motorcycle a degree of protection from injury in the event of an accident; and (b) is securely fastened to the head of the wearer by means of straps or other fastenings provided on the headgear.] 130. Duty to produce licence and certificate of registration.—(1) The driver of a motor vehicle in any public place shall, on demand by any police officer in uniform, produce his licence for examination: Provided that the driver may, if his licence has been submitted to, or has been seized by, any officer or authority under this or any other Act, produce in lieu of the licence a receipt or other acknowledgment issued by such officer or authority in respect thereof and thereafter produce the licence within such period, in such manner as the Central Government may prescribe to the police officer making the demand.