22 (4) If a licence to drive a particular class or description of motor vehicles is cancelled or suspended under this section, the person holding such a licence shall be debarred from holding, or obtaining, any licence to drive such particular class or description of motor vehicles so long as the cancellation or suspension of the driving licence remains in force. 23. Effect of disqualification order.—(1) A person in respect of whom any disqualification order is made under section 19 or section 20 shall be debarred to the extent and for the period specified in such order from holding or obtaining a driving licence and the driving licence, if any, held by such person at the date of the order shall cease to be effective to such extent and during such period. (2) The operation of a disqualification order made under section 20 shall not be suspended or postponed while an appeal is pending against such order or against the conviction as a result of which such order is made, unless the appellate court so directs. (3) Any person in respect of whom any disqualification order has been made may at any time after the expiry of six months from the date of the order apply to the Court or other authority by which the order was made, to remove the disqualification; and the Court or authority, as the case may be, may, having regard to all the circumstances, either cancel or vary the disqualification order: Provided that where the Court or other authority refuses to cancel or vary any disqualification order under this section, a second application thereunder shall not be entertained before the expiry of a period of three months from the date of such refusal. 24. Endorsement.—(1) The Court or authority making an order of disqualification shall endorse or cause to be endorsed upon the driving licence if any, held by the person disqualified, particulars of the order of disqualification and of any conviction of an offence in respect of which an order of disqualification is made; and particulars of any cancellation or variation of an order of disqualification made under sub-section (3) of section 23 shall be similarly so endorsed. (2) A Court by which any person is convicted of an offence under this Act as may be prescribed by the Central Government, having regard to the objects of this Act, shall, whether or not a disqualification order is made in respect of such conviction, endorse or cause to be endorsed particulars of such conviction on any driving licence held by the person convicted. (3) Any person accused of an offence prescribed under sub-section (2) shall when attending the Court bring with him his driving licence if it is in his possession. (4) Where any person is convicted of any offence under this Act and sentenced to imprisonment for a period exceeding three months the Court awarding the sentence shall endorse the fact of such sentence upon the driving licence of the person concerned and the prosecuting authority shall intimate the fact of such endorsement to the authority by which the driving licence was granted or last renewed. (5) When the driving licence is endorsed or caused to be endorsed by any Court, such Court shall send the particulars of the endorsement to the licensing authority by which the driving licence was granted or last renewed. (6) Where on an appeal against any conviction or order of a Court, which has been endorsed on a driving licence, the appellate court varies or sets aside the conviction or order, the appellate court shall inform the licensing authority by which the driving licence was granted or last renewed and such authority shall amend or cause to be amended the endorsement. 25. Transfer of endorsement and issue of driving licence free from endorsement.—(1) An endorsement on any driving licence shall be transferred to any new or duplicate driving licence obtained by the holder thereof until the holder becomes entitled under the provisions of this section to have a driving licence issued to him free from endorsement.