1. Ins. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 12 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 2. Subs. by s. 13, ibid., for the section 26 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).
23 (2) Where a driving licence is required to be endorsed and the driving licence is not in the possession of the Court or authority by which the endorsement is to be made, then— (a) if the person in respect of whom the endorsement is to be made is at the time the holder of a driving licence, he shall produce the driving licence to the Court or authority within five days, or such longer time as the Court or authority may fix; or (b) if, not being then the holder of a driving licence, he subsequently obtains a driving licence, he shall within five days after obtaining the driving licence produce it to the Court or authority, and if the driving licence is not produced within the time specified, it shall, on the expiration of such time, be of no effect until it is produced for the purpose of endorsement. (3) A person whose driving licence has been endorsed shall, if during a continuous period of three years after such endorsement no further endorsement has been made against him, be entitled on surrendering his driving licence and on payment of a fee of five rupees, to receive a new driving licence free from all endorsements: Provided that if the endorsement is only in respect of an offence contravening the speed limits referred to in section 112, such person shall be entitled to receive a new driving licence free from such endorsements on the expiration of one year of the date of the endorsement: Provided further that in reckoning the said period of three years and one year, respectively, any period during which the said person was disqualified for holding or obtaining a driving licence shall be excluded. 1[25A. National Register of Driving Licences.—(1) The Central Government shall maintain a National Register of Driving Licences in such form and manner as may be prescribed. (2) All State Registers of Driving Licences shall be subsumed under the National Register of Driving Licences by a date to be notified by the Central Government. (3) No driving licence issued, or renewed, under this Act shall be valid unless it has been issued a unique driving licence number under the National Register of Driving Licences. (4) All State Governments and licensing authorities under this Act shall transmit all information including contained data in the State Register of Driving Licences in such form and manner as may be prescribed by the Central Government. (5) The State Governments shall be entitled to access the National Register and update their records in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central Government.] 2[26. Maintenance of State Registers of Driving Licences.— Each State Government shall maintain, in such form as may be prescribed by the Central Government, a register to be known as the State Register of Driving Licences, in respect of driving licences issued and renewed by the licensing authorities of the State Government, containing particulars, including— (a) names and addresses of holders of driving licences; (b) licence numbers; (c) dates of issue or renewal of licences; (d) dates of expiry of licences; (e) classes and types of vehicles authorised to be driven; and (f) such other particulars as the Central Government may prescribe.]