control, take all reasonable steps to secure medical attention for the injured person, 1[by conveying
render medical aid or treatment without waiting for any procedural formalities], unless the injured person or his guardian, in case he is a minor, desires otherwise; (b) give on demand by a police officer any information required by him, or, if no police officer is present, report the circumstances of the occurrence, including the circumstances, if any, for not taking reasonable steps to secure medical attention as required under clause (a), at the nearest police station as soon as possible, and in any case within twenty-four hours of the occurrence. 2[(c) give the following information in writing to the insurer, who has issued the certificates of insurance, about the occurrence of the accident, namely:— (i) insurance policy number and period of its validity; (ii) date, time and place of accident; (iii) particulars of the persons injured or killed in the accident; (iv) name of the driver and the particulars of his driving licence. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the expression “driver” includes the owner of the vehicle.] 3[134A. Protection of Good Samaritans. —(1) A Good Samaritan shall not be liable for any civil or criminal action for any injury to or death of the victim of an accident involving a motor vehicle, where such injury or death resulted from the Good Samaritan’s negligence in acting or failing to act while rendering emergency medical or non-medical care or assistance. (2) The Central Government may by rules provide for the procedure for questioning or examination of the Good Samaritan, disclosure of personal information of the Good Samaritan and such other related matters. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “Good Samaritan” means a person, who in good faith, voluntarily and without expectation of any reward or compensation renders emergency medical or non-medical care or assistance at the scene of an accident to the victim or transports such victim to the hospital.] 135. Schemes to be framed for the investigation of accident cases and wayside amenities, etc.—(1) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make one or more schemes to provide for— (a) an in depth study on causes and analysis of motor vehicle accidents; (b) wayside amenities on highways; (c) traffic aid posts on highways; 4*** (d) truck parking complexes along 5[highways; and]. 6[(e) any other amenities in the interests of the safety and the convenience of the public.]
practitioner or the doctor on the duty in the hospital immediately to attend to the injured person and
him to the nearest medical practitioner or hospital, and it shall be the duty of every registered medical
79 134. Duty of driver in case of accident and injury to a person.—When any person is injured or any property of a third party is damaged, as a result of an accident in which a motor vehicle is involved, the driver of the vehicle or other person in charge of the vehicle shall— (a) unless it is not practicable to do so on account of mob fury or any other reason beyond his