39 vehicle and any permit granted in respect of the vehicle under Chapter V shall be deemed to be suspended until a new certificate of fitness has been obtained: 1[Provided that no such cancellation shall be made by the prescribed authority unless, — (a) such prescribed authority holds such technical qualification as may be prescribed by the Central Government and where the prescribed authority does not hold the technical qualification, such cancellation is made on the basis of the report of an officer having such qualification; and (b) the reasons recorded in writing cancelling a certificate of fitness are confirmed by an authorised testing station chosen by the owner of the vehicle whose certificate of fitness is sought to be cancelled: Provided further that if the cancellation is confirmed by the authorised testing station, the cost of undertaking the test shall be borne by the owner of the vehicle being tested and in the alternative by the prescribed authority.] (5) A certificate of fitness issued under this Act shall, while it remains effective, be valid throughout India. 2[(6) All transport vehicles with a valid certificate of fitness issued under this section shall carry, on their bodies, in a clear and visible manner such distinguishing mark as may be prescribed by the Central Government. (7) Subject to such conditions as the Central Government may prescribe, the provisions of this section may be extended to non-transport vehicles.] 57. Appeals.—3[(1) Any person aggrieved by an order of the registering authority under section 41, 42, 43, 45, 47, 48, 49, 50, 52, 53, 55 or 56 may, within thirty days of the date on which he has received notice of such order, appeal against the order to the prescribed authority.] (2) The appellate authority shall give notice of the appeal to the original authority and after giving an opportunity to the original authority and the appellant to be heard in the appeal pass such orders as it thinks fit. 58. Special provisions in regard to transport vehicles.—(1) The Central Government may, having regard to the number, nature and size of the tyres attached to the wheels of a transport vehicle, (other than a motor cab), and its make and model and other relevant considerations, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify, in relation to each make and model of a transport vehicle, the 4[maximum gross vehicle weight] of such vehicle and the maximum safe axle weight of each axle of such vehicle. (2) A registering authority, when registering a transport vehicle, other than a motor cab shall enter in the record of registration and shall also enter in the certificate of registration of the vehicle the following particulars, namely:— (a) the unladen weight of the vehicle; (b) the number, nature and size of the tyres attached to each wheel; (c) the gross vehicle weight of the vehicle and the registered axle weights pertaining to the several axles thereof; and (d) if the vehicle is used or adapted to be used for the carriage of passengers solely or in addition to goods, the number of passengers for whom accommodation is provided, and the owner of the vehicle shall have the same particulars exhibited in the prescribed manner on the vehicle.
1. Sub-section (4) omitted by Act 27 of 2000, s. 3 (w.e.f. 11-8-2000). 2. Ins. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 24 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).