1. Cl. (h) omitted by Act 27 of 2000, s. 4 (w.e.f. 11-8-2000). 2. Cl. (l) omitted by Act 39 of 2001, s. 2 (w.e.f. 27-9-2001). 3. Ins. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 29 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 4. Ins. by, s. 30, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).
45 (c) to any transport vehicle used solely for police, fire brigade or ambulance purposes; (d) to any transport vehicle used solely for the conveyance of corpses and the mourners accompanying the corpses; (e) to any transport vehicle used for towing a disabled vehicle or for removing goods from a disabled vehicle to a place of safety; (f) to any transport vehicle used for any other public purpose as may be prescribed by the State Government in this behalf; (g) to any transport vehicle used by a person who manufactures or deals in motor vehicles or builds bodies for attachment to chassis, solely for such purposes and in accordance with such conditions as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf; 1* * * * * (i) to any goods vehicle, the gross vehicle weight of which does not exceed 3,000 kilograms; (j) subject to such conditions as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify, to any transport vehicle purchased in one State and proceeding to a place, situated in that State or in any other State, without carrying any passenger or goods; (k) to any transport vehicle which has been temporarily registered under section 43 while proceeding empty to any place for the purpose of registration of the vehicle; 2* * * * * (m) to any transport vehicle which, owing to flood, earthquake or any other natural calamity, obstruction on road, or unforeseen circumstances is required to be diverted through any other route, whether within or outside the State, with a view to enabling it to reach its destination; (n) to any transport vehicle used for such purposes as the Central or State Government may, by order, specify; (o) to any transport vehicle which is subject to a hire-purchase, lease or hypothecation agreement and which owing to the default of the owner has been taken possession of by or on behalf of, the person with whom the owner has entered into such agreement, to enable such motor vehicle to reach its destination; or (p) to any transport vehicle while proceeding empty to any place for purpose of repair. 3[(q) to any transport vehicle having been issued a licence under a scheme, under sub-section (3) of section 67 or sub-section (1) of section 88A, or plying under such orders as may be issued by the Central Government or by the State Government.] (4) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), sub-section (1) shall if the State Government by rule made under section 96 so prescribes, apply to any motor vehicle adapted to carry more than nine persons excluding the driver. 4[66A. National Transportation Policy.—The Central Government may develop a National Transportation Policy consistent with the objects of this Act in concurrence with the State Governments and other agencies with a view to— (i) establish a planning framework for passengers and goods transportation within which transport bodies are to operate;