47 carriages, contract carriages or goods carriages under any law for the time being in force relating to tax on passengers and goods: 1[Provided that the State Government may subject to such conditions as it may deem fit, and with a view to achieving the objectives specified in clause (d) of sub-section (1), relax all or any of the provisions made under this Chapter.] 1[(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, modify any permit issued under this Act or make schemes for the transportation of goods and passengers and issue licences under such scheme for the promotion of development and efficiency in transportation— (a) last mile connectivity; (b) rural transport; (c) reducing traffic congestion; (d) improving urban transport; (e) safety of road users; (f) better utilisation of transportation assets; (g) the enhancement of economic vitality of the area, through competitiveness, productivity and efficiency; (h) the increase in the accessibility and mobility of people; (i) the protection and enhancement of the environment; (j) the promotion of energy conservation; (k) improvement of the quality of life; (l) enhance integration and connectivity of the transportation system, across and between modes of transport; and (m) such other matters as the Central Government may deem fit. (4) The scheme framed under sub-section (3), shall specify the fees to be charged, form of application and grant of a licence including the renewal, suspension, cancellation or modification of such licence.] 68. Transport Authorities.—(1) The State Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute for the State a State Transport Authority to exercise and discharge the powers and functions specified in sub-section (3), and shall in like manner constitute Regional Transport Authorities to exercise and discharge throughout such areas (in this Chapter referred to as regions) as may be specified in the notification, in respect of each Regional Transport Authority; the powers and functions conferred by or under this Chapter on such Authorities: Provided that in the Union territories, the Administrator may abstain from constituting any Regional Transport Authority. (2) A State Transport Authority or a Regional Transport Authority shall consist of a Chairman who has had judicial experience or experience as an appellate or a revisional authority or as an adjudicating authority competent to pass any order or take any decision under any law and in the case of a State Transport Authority, such other persons (whether officials or not), not being more than four and, in the case of a Regional Transport Authority, such other persons (whether officials or not), not being more than two, as the State Government may think fit to appoint; but no person who has any financial interest whether as proprietor, employee or otherwise in any transport undertaking shall be appointed, or continue
1. Ins. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 31 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).
1. Ins. by Act 54 of 1994, s. 22 (w.e.f. 14-11-1994).