26 CHAPTER III LICENSING OF CONDUCTORS OF STAGE CARRIAGES 29. Necessity for conductor’s licence.—(1) No person shall act as a conductor of a stage carriage unless he holds an effective conductor’s licence issued to him authorising him to act as such conductor; and no person shall employ or permit any person who is not so licensed to act as a conductor of a stage carriage. (2) A State Government may prescribe the conditions subject to which sub-section (1) shall not apply to a driver of a stage carriage performing the functions of a conductor or to a person employed to act as a conductor for a period not exceeding one month. 30. Grant of conductor’s licence.—(1) Any person who possesses such minimum educational qualification as may be prescribed by the State Government and is not disqualified under sub-section (1) of section 31 and who is not for the time being disqualified for holding or obtaining a conductor’s licence may apply to the licensing authority having jurisdiction in the area in which he ordinarily resides or carries on business for the issue to him of a conductor’s licence. (2) Every application under sub-section (1) shall be in such form and shall contain such information as may be prescribed. (3) Every application for a conductor’s licence shall be accompanied by a medical certificate in such form as may be prescribed, signed by a registered medical practitioner and shall also be accompanied by two clear copies of a recent photograph of the applicant. (4) A conductor’s licence issued under this Chapter shall be in such form and contain such particulars as may be prescribed and shall be effective throughout the State in which it is issued. (5) The fee for a conductor’s licence and for each renewal thereof shall be one-half of that for a driving licence. 31. Disqualifications for the grant of conductor’s licence.—(1) No person under the age of eighteen years shall hold, or be granted, a conductor’s licence. (2) The licensing authority may refuse to issue a conductor’s licence— (a) if the applicant does not possess the minimum educational qualification; (b) if the medical certificate produced by the applicant discloses that he is physically unfit to act as a conductor; and (c) if any previous conductor’s licence held by the applicant was revoked. 32. Revocation of a conductor’s licence on grounds of disease or disability.—A conductor’s licence may at any time be revoked by any licensing authority if that authority has reasonable grounds to believe that the holder of the licence is suffering from any disease or disability which is likely to render him permanently unfit to hold such a licence and where the authority revoking a conductor’s licence is not the authority which issued the same, it shall intimate the fact of such revocation to the authority which issued that licence: Provided that before revoking any licence, the licensing authority shall give the person holding such licence a reasonable opportunity of being heard. 33. Orders refusing, etc., conductor’s licences and appeals therefrom.—(1) Where a licensing authority refuses to issue or renew, or revokes any conductor’s licence, it shall do so by an order communicated to the applicant or the holder, as the case may be, giving the reasons in writing for such refusal or revocation. (2) Any person aggrieved by an order made under sub-section (1) may, within thirty days of the service on him of the order, appeal to the prescribed authority which shall decide the appeal after giving such person and the authority which made the order an opportunity of being heard and the decision of the appellate authority shall be binding on the authority which made the order.