1. Subs. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 16, for “a registering authority” (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 2. Ins. by s. 17, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 3. Subs. by s. 17, ibid., for “to the owner of a motor vehicle registered by it a certificate of registration” (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).
28 (f) the issue of duplicate licences to replace licences lost, destroyed or mutilated, the replacement of photographs which have become obsolete and the fees to be charged therefor; (g) the conduct and hearing of appeals that may be preferred under this Chapter, the fees to be paid in respect of such appeals and the refund of such fees: Provided that no fee so fixed shall exceed twenty-five rupees; (h) the badges and uniform to be worn by conductors of stage carriages and the fees to be paid in respect of such badges; (i) the grant of the certificates referred to in sub-section (3) of section 30 by registered medical practitioners and the form of such certificates; (j) the conditions subject to which, and the extent to which, a conductor’s licence issued in another State shall be effective in the State; (k) the communication of particulars of conductor’s licences from one authority to other authorities; and (l) any other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed. CHAPTER IV REGISTRATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES 39. Necessity for registration.—No person shall drive any motor vehicle and no owner of a motor vehicle shall cause or permit the vehicle to be driven in any public place or in any other place unless the vehicle is registered in accordance with this Chapter and the certificate of registration of the vehicle has not been suspended or cancelled and the vehicle carries a registration mark displayed in the prescribed manner: Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to a motor vehicle in possession of a dealer subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the Central Government. 40. Registration, where to be made.—Subject to the provisions of section 42, section 43 and section 60, every owner of a motor vehicle shall cause the vehicle to be registered by 1[any registering authority in the State] in whose jurisdiction he has the residence or place of business where the vehicle is normally kept. 41. Registration, how to be made.—(1) An application by or on behalf of the owner of a motor vehicle for registration shall be in such form and shall be accompanied by such documents, particulars and information and shall be made within such period as may be prescribed by the Central Government: Provided that where a motor vehicle is jointly owned by more persons than one, the application shall be made by one of them on behalf of all the owners and such applicant shall be deemed to be the owner of the motor vehicle for the purposes of this Act. 2[Provided further that in the case of a new motor vehicle, the application for registration in the State shall be made by the dealer of such motor vehicle, if the new motor vehicle is being registered in the same State in which the dealer is situated.] (2) An application referred to in sub-section (1) shall be accompanied by such fee as may be prescribed by the Central Government. (3) The registering authority shall issue 3[a certificate of registration in the name of the owner] in such form and containing such particulars and information and in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central Government.