46 (ii) establish a medium and long term planning framework for all forms of road transport, identify areas for the development of transport improvement infrastructure across India in consultation with the authorities and agencies related to ports, railways and aviation as well as with local and State level planning, land holding and regulatory authorities for the delivery of an integrated multimodal transport system; (iii) establish the framework of grant of permits and schemes; (iv) establish strategic policy for transport by road and its role as a link to other means of transport; (v) identify strategic policies and specify priorities for the transport system that address current and future challenges; (vi) provide medium to long term strategic directions, priorities and actions; (vii) promote competition, innovation, increase in capacity, seamless mobility and greater efficiency in transport of goods or livestock or passengers, and economical use of resources; (viii) safeguard the interest of the public and promote equity, while seeking to enhance private participation and public-private partnership in the transport sector; (ix) demonstrate an integrated approach to transport and land use planning; (x) identify the challenges that the National Transportation Policy seeks to address; and (xi) address any other matter deemed relevant by the Central Government. 66B. No bar against permit holders to apply and hold licences under schemes.—No person who holds the permit issued under this Act shall— (a) be disqualified from applying for a licence under the scheme made under sub-section (3) of section 67 or sub-section (1) of section 88A by reason of holding such permit; and (b) be required to get such permit cancelled on being issued a licence under any scheme made under this Act.] 67. Power to State Government to control road transport.—1[(1) A State Government, having regard to— (a) the advantages offered to the public, trade and industry by the development of motor transport; (b) the desirability of co-ordinating road and rail transport; (c) the desirability of preventing the deterioration of the road system, and (d) promoting effective competition among the transport service providers, may, from time to time, by notification in the Official Gazette issue directions both to the State Transport Authority and Regional Transport Authority regarding the passengers’ convenience, economically competitive fares, prevention of overcrowding and road safety.] (2) Any direction under sub-section (1) regarding the fixing of fares and freights for stage carriages, contract carriages and goods carriages may provide that such fares or freights shall be inclusive of the tax payable by the passengers or the consignors of the goods, as the case may be, to the operators of the stage
1. Subs. by Act 32 of 2019 s. 31, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).