1. Clause (o) omitted by Act 32 of 2019, s. 28 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 2. Ins. by s. 29, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 3. Added by Act 54 of 1994, s. 20 (w.e.f. 14-11-1994).
44 (h) the exemption of prescribed persons or prescribed classes of persons from payment of all or any portion of the fees payable under this Chapter; (i) the forms, other than those prescribed by the Central Government, to be used for the purpose of this Chapter; (j) the communication between registering authorities of particulars of certificates of registration and by owners of vehicles registered outside the State of particulars of such vehicles and of their registration; (k) the amount or amounts under sub-section (13) of section 41 or sub-section (7) of section 47 or sub-section (4) of section 49 or sub-section (5) of section 50; (l) the extension of the validity of certificates of fitness pending consideration of applications for their renewal; (m) the exemption from the provisions of this Chapter, and the conditions and fees for exemption, of motor vehicles in the possession of dealers; (n) the form in which and the period within which the return under section 62 shall be sent; 1* * * * * (p) any other matter which is to be or may be prescribed. CHAPTER V CONTROL OF TRANSPORT VEHICLES 66. Necessity for permits.—(1) No owner of a motor vehicle shall use or permit the use of the vehicle as a transport vehicle in any public place whether or not such vehicle is actually carrying any passengers or goods save in accordance with the conditions of a permit granted or countersigned by a Regional or State Transport Authority or any prescribed authority authorising him the use of the vehicle in that place in the manner in which the vehicle is being used: Provided that a stage carriage permit shall, subject to any conditions that may be specified in the permit, authorise the use of the vehicle as a contract carriage: Provided further that a stage carriage permit may, subject to any conditions that may be specified in the permit, authorise the use of the vehicle as a goods carriage either when carrying passengers or not: Provided also that a goods carriage permit shall, subject to any conditions that may be specified in the permit, authorise the use of the vehicle for the carriage of goods for or in connection with a trade or business carried on by him. 2[Provided also that where a transport vehicle has been issued any permit or permits, as well as a licence under this Act, such vehicle may be used either under the permit, or permits, so issued to it, or under such licence, at the discretion of the vehicle owner.] (2) The holder of a goods carriage permit may use the vehicle, for the drawing of any public or semi-trailer not owned by him, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed. 3[Provided that the holder of a permit of any articulated vehicle may use the prime-mover of that articulated vehicle for any other semi-trailor.] (3) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not apply— (a) to any transport vehicle owned by the Central Government or a State Government and used for Government purposes unconnected with any commercial enterprise; (b) to any transport vehicle owned by a local authority or by a person acting under contract with a local authority and used solely for road cleansing, road watering or conservancy purposes;