88 other disposition made by or payment made to the insured person after the commencement aforesaid, shall be effective to defeat the rights transferred to the third party under this Chapter; but those rights shall be the same as if no such agreement, waiver, assignment or disposition or payment has been made. 154. Saving in respect of sections 151, 152 and 153. — (1) For the purposes of sections 151, 152 and 153, a reference to “liabilities to third parties” in relation to a person insured under any policy of insurance shall not include a reference to any liability of that person in the capacity of insurer under some other policy of insurance. (2) The provisions of sections 151, 152 and 153 shall not apply where a company is wound-up voluntarily merely for the purposes of reconstruction or of an amalgamation with another company. 155. Effect of death on certain causes of action. —Notwithstanding anything contained in section 306 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925, (39 of 1925) the death of a person in whose favour a certificate of insurance had been issued, if it occurs after the happening of an event which has given rise to a claim under the provisions of this Chapter, shall not be a bar to the survival of any cause of action arising out of such event against his estate or against the insurer. 156. Effect of certificate of insurance. — When an insurer has issued a certificate of insurance in respect of a contract of insurance between the insurer and the insured person, then— (a) if and so long as the policy described in the certificate has not been issued by the insurer to the insured, the insurer shall, as between himself and any other person except the insured, be deemed to have issued to the insured person a policy of insurance conforming in all respects with the description and particulars stated in such certificate; and (b) if the insurer has issued to the insured the policy described in the certificate, but the actual terms of the policy are less favourable to persons claiming under or by virtue of the policy against the insurer either directly or through the insured than the particulars of the policy as stated in the certificate, the policy shall, as between the insurer and any other person except the insured, be deemed to be in terms conforming in all respects with the particulars stated in the said certificate. 157. Transfer of certificate of insurance. — (1) Where a person, in whose favour the certificate of insurance has been issued in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, transfers to another person the ownership of the motor vehicle in respect of which such insurance was taken together with the policy of insurance relating thereto, the certificate of insurance and the policy described in the certificate shall be deemed to have been transferred in favour of the person to whom the motor vehicle is transferred with effect from the date of its transfer. Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that such deemed transfer shall include transfer of rights and liabilities of the said certificate of insurance and policy of insurance. (2) The transferee shall apply within fourteen days from the date of transfer in the prescribed form to the insurer for making necessary changes in regard to the fact of transfer in the certificate of insurance and the policy described in the certificate in his favour, and the insurer shall make the necessary changes in the certificate and the policy of insurance in regard to the transfer of insurance. 158. Production of certain certificates, licence and permit in certain cases. —(1) Any person driving a motor vehicle in any public place shall, on being so required by a police officer in uniform authorised in this behalf by the State Government, produce— (a) the certificate of insurance; (b) the certificate of registration; (c) the pollution under control certificate; (d) the driving licence; (e) in the case of a transport vehicle, also the certificate of fitness referred to in section 56, and the permit; and