person in charge of the vehicle within twenty-four hours]. 3[136A. Electronic monitoring and enforcement of road safety. —(1) The State Government shall ensure electronic monitoring and enforcement of road safety in the manner provided under sub-section (2) on national highways, state highways, roads or in any urban city within a State which has a population up to such limits as may be prescribed by the Central Government. (2) The Central Government shall make rules for the electronic monitoring and enforcement of road safety including speed cameras, closed-circuit television cameras, speed guns, body wearable cameras and such other technology. Explanation.—For the purpose of this section the expression “body wearable camera” means a mobile audio and video capture device worn on the body or uniform of a person authorised by the State Government.] 137. Power of Central Government to make rules.—The Central Government may make rules to provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:— (a) the occasions on which signals shall be made by drivers of motor vehicles and such signals under section 121; 4[(aa) providing for the standards of protective headgear and measures for the safety of children below the age of four years riding under section 129;] (b) the manner in which the licences and certificates may be produced to the police officer under section 130. 4[(c) providing for limits of urban city by the State Governments under sub-section (1) of section 136A; and (d) providing for electronic monitoring and enforcement under sub-section (2) of section 136A.] 138. Power of State Government to make rules.—(1) The State Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Chapter other than the matters specified in section 137. 5[(1A) The State Government may, in the interest of road safety, make rules for the purposes of regulating the activities and access of non-mechanically propelled vehicles and pedestrians to public places and national highways: Provided that in the case of national highways, such rules shall be framed in consultation with the National Highways Authority of India.] (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for—