1. Ins. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 27 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 2. Ins. by s. 28, ibid. (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).
43 (l) the form in which the application under sub-section (2) or sub-section (3) of section 51 shall be made; 1[(la) specifications, conditions for approval, retrofitment and other related matters for the alteration of motor vehicles under sub-section (1) of section 52; (lb) the conditions for the alteration of any motor vehicle into an adapted vehicle under sub-section (2) of section 52;] (m) the form in which the certificate of fitness shall be issued under sub-section (1) of section 56 and the particulars and information it shall contain; (n) the period for which the certificate of fitness granted or renewed under section 56 shall be effective; 1[(na) the distinguishing mark to be carried on the body of transport vehicles under sub-section (6) of section 56; (nb) the conditions under which the application of section 56 may be extended to non-transport vehicles under sub-section (7) of section 56; (nc) the recycling of motor vehicles and parts thereof which have exceeded their life under sub-section (4) of section 59;] (o) the fees to be charged for the issue or renewal or alteration of certificates of registration, for making an entry regarding transfer of ownership on a certificate of registration, for making or cancelling an endorsement in respect of agreement of hire-purchase or lease or hypothecation on a certificate of registration, for certificates of fitness for registration marks, and for the examination or inspection of motor vehicles, and the refund of such fees. 1[(oa) all or any of the matters under sub-section (1) of section 62B; (ob) all or any of the matters under sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of section 63;] (p) any other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed by the Central Government. 65. Power of State Government to make rules.—(1) A State Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Chapter other than the matters specified in section 64. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for— (a) the conduct and hearing of appeals that may be preferred under this Chapter (the fees to be paid in respect of such appeals and the refund of such fees); (b) the appointment, functions and jurisdiction of registering and other prescribed authorities; (c) the exemption of road-rollers, graders and other vehicles designed and used solely for the construction, repair and cleaning of roads from all or any of the provisions of this Chapter and the rules made thereunder and the conditions governing such exemption; (d) the issue or renewal of certificates of registration and fitness and duplicates of such certificates to replace the certificates lost, destroyed or mutilated; (e) the production of certificates of registration before the registering authority for the revision of entries therein of particulars relating to the gross vehicle weight; (f) the temporary registration of motor vehicles, and the issue of temporary certificate of registration and marks 2[under the proviso to section 43]; (g) the manner in which the particulars referred to in sub-section (2) of section 58 and other prescribed particulars shall be exhibited;