3[Explanation.—Use of a motor vehicle in contravention of the provisions of section 56 shall be deemed to be a contravention of the provisions of section 39 and shall be punishable in the same manner as provided in sub-section (1).] 192A. Using vehicle without permit.—(1) Whoever drives a motor vehicle or causes or allows a motor vehicle to be used in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 66 or in contravention of any condition of a permit relating to the route on which or the area in which or the purpose for which the vehicle may be used, shall be punishable for the first offence with 4[imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months and] a fine 5[of ten thousand rupees] and for any subsequent offence with imprisonment which may extend to one year but shall not be less than 6[six months] or with fine 7[of ten thousand rupees] or with both: Provided that the court may for reasons to be recorded, impose a lesser punishment. (2) Nothing in this section shall apply to the use of a motor vehicle in an emergency for the conveyance of persons suffering from sickness or injury or for the transport of materials for repair or for the transport of food or materials to relieve distress or of medical supplies for a like purpose: Provided that the person using the vehicle reports about the same to the Regional Transport Authority within seven days from the date of such use. (3) The court to which an appeal lies from any conviction in respect of an offence of the nature specified in sub-section (1), may set aside or vary any order made by the court below, notwithstanding that no appeal lies against the conviction in connection with which such order was made.]
Authority within seven days from the date of such use.
Provided that the court may, for reasons to be recorded, impose a lesser punishment.
conveyance of persons suffering from sickness or injuries or for the transport of food or materials to
(2) Nothing in this section shall apply to the use of a motor vehicle in an emergency for the
102 imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with both, and for any second or subsequent offence with fine 1[of twenty thousand rupees], or with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with both. [191. Sale of vehicle in or alteration of vehicle to condition contravening this Act.]—Omitted by Act The Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019 (32 of 2019), s. 73 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 2[192. Using vehicle without registration.—(1) Whoever drives a motor vehicle or causes or allows a motor vehicle to be used in contravention of the provisions of section 39 shall be punishable for the first offence with a fine which may extend to five thousand rupees but shall not be less than two thousand rupees for a second or subsequent offence with imprisonment which may extend to one year or with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees but shall not be less than five thousand rupees or with both:
(3) The court to which an appeal lies from any conviction in respect of an offence of the nature
that no appeal lies against the conviction in connection with which such order was made.