103 1[192B. Offences relating to registration.—(1) Whoever, being the owner of a motor vehicle, fails to make an application for registration of such motor vehicle under sub-section (1) of section 41 shall be punishable with fine of five times the annual road tax or one-third of the lifetime tax of the motor vehicle whichever is higher. (2) Whoever, being a dealer, fails to make an application for the registration of a new motor vehicle under the second proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 shall be punishable with fine of fifteen times the annual road tax or the lifetime tax of the motor vehicle whichever is higher. (3) Whoever, being the owner of a motor vehicle, obtains a certificate of registration for such vehicle on the basis of documents which were, or by representation of facts which was, false in any material particular, or the engine number or the chassis number embossed thereon are different from such number entered in the certificate of registration shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months but may extend to one year and with fine equal to ten times the amount of the annual road tax or two-third the lifetime tax of the motor vehicle, whichever is higher. (4) Whoever, being a dealer, obtains a certificate of registration for such vehicle on the basis of documents which were, or by representation of facts which was, false in any material particular, or the engine number or the chassis number embossed thereon are different from such number entered in the certificate of registration shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months but may extend to one year and with fine equal to ten times the amount of annual road tax or two-third the lifetime tax of the motor vehicle, whichever is higher.] 193. Punishment of 2[agents, canvassers and aggregators] without proper authority.—Whoever engages himself as an agent or canvasser in contravention of the provisions of section 93 or of any rules made thereunder shall be punishable for the first offence with fine 3[of one thousand rupees] and for any second or subsequent offence with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine 4[of two thousand rupees], or with both. 5[(2) Whoever engages himself as an aggregator in contravention of the provisions of section 93 or of any rules made there under shall be punishable with fine up to one lakh rupees but shall not be less than twenty-five thousand rupees. (3) Whoever, while operating as an aggregator contravenes a condition of the licence granted under sub-section (1) of section 93, not designated by the State Government as a material condition, shall be punishable with fine of five thousand rupees.]
8. Subs. by s. 78, ibid., for “of two thousand rupees and an additional amount of one thousand rupees per tonne of excess load” (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 9. Ins. by s. 78. ibid. (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).