1. Subs. by Act 54 of 1994, s. 10, for “printed copy” (w.e.f. 14-11-1994). 2. Ins. by Act 3 of 2015, s. 5 (w.e.f. 7-1-2015). 3. Clause (a) renumbered as clause (aa) thereof by s. 5, ibid. (w.e.f. 7-1-2015). 4. Ins. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 14 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).
24 (2) Each State Government shall supply to the Central Government a 1[printed copy or copy in such other form as the Central Government may require] of the State Register of Driving Licences and shall inform the Central Government without delay of all additions to and other amendments in such register made from time to time. (3) The State Register of Driving Licences shall be maintained in such manner as may be prescribed by the State Government. 27. Power of Central Government to make rules.—The Central Government may make rules— 2[(a) specifications relating to e-cart and e-rickshaw under sub-section (2) of section 2A;] 3[(aa)] regarding conditions referred to in sub-section (2) of section 3; (b) providing for the form in which the application for learner’s licence may be made, the information it shall contain and the documents to be submitted with the application referred to in sub-section (2) of section 8; (c) providing for the form of medical certificate referred to in sub-section (3) of section 8; (d) providing for the particulars for the test referred to in sub-section (5) of section 8; 4[(da) the form and manner in which a licensing authority may issue a learner’s licence under sub-section (6) of section 8; (db) the manner in which a licensing authority may verify the identity of the applicant under the third proviso to sub-section (6) of section 8;] (e) providing for the form in which the application for driving licence may be made, the information it shall contain and the documents to be submitted with the application referred to in sub-section (2) of section 9; (f) providing for the particulars regarding test of competence to drive, referred to in sub-section (3) of section 9; 2[(ff) the manner and the conditions subject to which the driving licence may be issued under sub-section (10) of section 9;] (g) specifying the minimum educational qualifications of persons to whom licences to drive transport vehicles may be issued under this Act and the time within which such qualifications are to be acquired by such persons; (h) providing for the form and contents of the licences referred to in sub-section (1) of section 10; (i) providing for the form and contents of the application referred to in sub-section (1) of section 11 and documents to be submitted with the application and the fee to be charged; (j) providing for the conditions subject to which section 9 shall apply to an application made under section 11; 4[(ja) the curriculum of training modules and the regulation of schools and establishments under sub-section (6) of section 12; (jb) the conditions for the renewal of licence to drive transport vehicles carrying goods of dangerous or hazardous nature and other motor vehicles under clause (a) and clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 14;