41 (5) The authority registering a vehicle under sub-section (1) shall furnish to any State Government all such information regarding the general nature, overall dimensions and axle weights of the vehicle as the State Government may at any time require. 61. Application of Chapter to trailers.—(1) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the registration of trailers as they apply to the registration of any other motor vehicle. (2) The registration mark assigned to a trailer shall be displayed in such manner on the side of the drawing vehicle, as may be prescribed by the Central Government. (3) No person shall drive a motor vehicle to which a trailer is or trailers are attached unless the registration mark of the motor vehicle so driven is displayed on the trailer or on the last trailer in the train, as the case may be, in such manner as may be prescribed by the Central Government. 62. Information regarding stolen and recovered motor vehicles to be furnished by the police to the State Transport Authority.—The State Government may, if it thinks necessary or expedient so to do in the public interest, direct the submission by the Inspector General of Police (by whatever designation called) and such other police officers as the State Government may specify in this behalf, of such returns containing the information regarding vehicles which have been stolen and stolen vehicles which have been recovered of which the police are aware, to the State Transport Authority, and may prescribe the form in which and the period within which such returns shall be made. 1[62A. Prohibition of registration and issuance of certificate of fitness to oversized vehicles.—(1) No registering authority shall register any motor vehicle that contravenes any rule made under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 110. (2) No prescribed authority or authorised testing station shall issue a certificate of fitness under section 56 to any motor vehicle that contravenes any rule made under section 110.] 62B. National Register of Motor Vehicles. —(1) The Central Government shall maintain a National Register of Motor Vehicles in such form and manner as may be prescribed by it: Provided that all State Registers of Motor Vehicles shall be subsumed under the National Register of Motor Vehicles by such date as may be notified in the Official Gazette by the Central Government. (2) No certificate of registration issued, or renewed, under this Act shall be valid unless it has been issued a unique registration number under the National Register of Motor Vehicles (3) In order to maintain the National Register of Motor Vehicles, all State Governments and registering authorities under this Act shall transmit all information and data in the State Register of Motor Vehicles to the Central Government in such form and manner as may be prescribed by the Central Government. (4) State Governments shall be able to access the National Register of Motor Vehicles and update records in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made by the Central Government thereunder.] 2[63. Maintenance of State Registers of Motor Vehicles.— (1) Each State Government shall maintain in such form as may be prescribed by the Central Government a register to be known as the State Register of Motor Vehicles, in respect of the motor vehicles in that State, containing the particulars including— (a) registration numbers; (b) years of manufacture; (c) classes and types; (d) names and addresses of registered owners; and (e) such other particulars as may be prescribed by the Central Government.]
1. Ins. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 25 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 2. Subs. by s. 26, ibid., for section 63 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).