76 118. Driving regulations.—The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make regulations for the driving of motor vehicles. 119. Duty to obey traffic signs.—(1) Every driver of a motor vehicle shall drive the vehicle in conformity with any indication given by mandatory traffic sign and in conformity with the driving regulations made by the Central Government, and shall comply with all directions given to him by any police officer for the time being engaged in the regulation of traffic in any public place. (2) In this section “mandatory traffic sign” means a traffic sign included in Part A of the Schedule, or any traffic sign of similar form (that is to say, consisting of or including a circular disc diplaying a device, word or figure and having a red ground or border) placed or erected for the purpose of regulating motor vehicle traffic under sub-section (1) of section 116. 120. Vehicles with left hand control.—No person shall drive or cause or allow to be driven in any public place any motor vehicle with a left-hand steering control unless it is equipped with a mechanical or electrical signalling device of a prescribed nature and in working order. 121. Signals and signalling devices.—The driver of a motor vehicle shall make such signals and on such occasions as may be prescribed by the Central Government: Provided that the signal of an intention to turn to the right or left or to stop— (a) in the case of a motor vehicle with a right-hand steering control, may be given by a mechanical or electrical device of a prescribed nature affixed to the vehicle; and (b) in the case of a motor vehicle with a left-hand steering control, shall be given by a mechanical or electrical device of a prescribed nature affixed to the vehicle: Provided further that the State Government may, having regard to the width and condition of the roads in any area or route, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt subject to such conditions as may be specified therein any motor vehicle or class or description of motor vehicles from the operation of this section for the purpose of plying in that area or route. 122. Leaving vehicle in dangerous position.—No person in charge of a motor vehicle shall cause or allow the vehicle or any trailer to be abandoned or to remain at rest on any public place in such a position or in such a condition or in such circumstances as to cause or likely to cause danger, obstruction or undue inconvenience to other users of the public place or to the passengers. 123. Riding on running board, etc.—(1) No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall carry any person or permit any person to be carried on the running board or otherwise than within the body of the vehicle. (2) No person shall travel on the running board or on the top or on the bonnet of a motor vehicle. 124. Prohibition against travelling without pass or ticket.—No person shall enter or remain in any stage carriage for the purposes of travelling therein unless he has with him a proper pass or ticket: Provided that where arrangements for the supply of tickets are made in the stage carriage by which a person has to travel, a person may enter such stage carriage but as soon as may be after his entry therein, be shall make the payment of his fare to the conductor or the driver who performs the functions of a conductor and obtain from such conductor or driver, as the case may be, a ticket for his journey. Explanation.—In this section,— (a) “pass” means a duty, privilege or courtesy pass entitling the person to whom it is given to travel in a stage carriage gratuitously and includes a pass issued on payment for travel in a stage carriage for the period specified therein; (b) “ticket” includes a single ticket, a return ticket or a season ticket. 125. Obstruction of driver.—No person driving a motor vehicle shall allow any person to stand or sit or to place anything in such a manner or position as to hamper the driver in his control of the vehicle.