73 (4) The testing agencies shall conduct tests on vehicles drawn from the production line of the manufacturer or obtained otherwise to verify the conformity of such vehicles to the provisions of this Chapter and the rules and regulations made thereunder. (5) Where the motor vehicle having a type-approval certificate is recalled under section 110A, the testing agency which granted the certificate to such motor vehicle shall be liable for its accreditation and registration to be cancelled.] 111. Power of State Government to make rules.—(1) A State Government may make rules regulating the construction, equipment and maintenance of motor vehicles and trailers with respect to all matters other than the matters specified in sub-section (1) of section 110. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, rules may be made under this section governing all or any of the following matters either generally in respect of motor vehicles or trailers or in respect of motor vehicles or trailers of a particular class or description or in particular circumstances, namely:— (a) seating arrangements in public service vehicles and the protection of passengers against the weather; (b) prohibiting or restricting the use of audible signals at certain times or in certain places; (c) prohibiting the carrying of appliances likely to cause annoyance or danger; (d) the periodical testing and inspection of vehicles by prescribed authorities 1[and fees to be charged for such test]; (e) the particulars other than registration marks to be exhibited by vehicles and the manner in which they shall be exhibited; (f) the use of trailers with motor vehicles; and 2* * * * * CHAPTER VIII CONTROL OF TRAFFIC 112. Limits of speed.—(1) No person shall drive a motor vehicle or cause or allow a motor vehicle to be driven in any public place at a speed exceeding the maximum speed or below the minimum speed fixed for the vehicle under this Act or by or under any other law for the time being in force: Provided that such maximum speed shall in no case exceed the maximum fixed for any motor vehicle or class or description of motor vehicles by the Central Government by notification in the Official Gazette. (2) The State Government or any authority authorised in this behalf by the State Government may, if satisfied that it is necessary to restrict the speed of motor vehicles in the interest of public safety or convenience or because of the nature of any road or bridge, by notification in the Official Gazette, and by causing appropriate traffic signs to be placed or erected under section 116 at suitable places, fix such maximum speed limits or minimum speed limits as it thinks fit for motor vehicles or any specified class or description of motor vehicles or for motor vehicles to which a trailer is attached, either generally or in a particular area or on a particular road or roads: Provided that no such notification is necessary if any restriction under this section is to remain in force for not more than one month. (3) Nothing in this section shall apply to any vehicle registered under section 60 while it is being used in the execution of military manoeuvres within the area and during the period specified in the notification under sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Manoeuvres, Field Firing and Artillery Practice Act, 1938 (5 of 1938).
1. Ins. by s. 33, Act 54 of 1994 (w.e.f. 14-11-1994). 2. Clause (g) omitted by s. 33, ibid. (w.e.f. 14-11-1994).