1. Ins. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 39 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 2. Ins. by Act 54 of 1994, s. 32. (w.e.f. 14-11-1994). 3. Ins. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 40 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).
71 (g) the emission of smoke, visible vapour, sparks, ashes, grit or oil; (h) the reduction of noise emitted by or caused by vehicles; (i) the embossment of chassis number and engine number and the date of manufacture; (j) safety belts, handle bars of motor cycles, auto-dippers and other equipments essential for safety of drivers, passengers and other road users; (k) standards of the components 1[including software] used in the vehicle as inbuilt safety devices; (l) provision for transportation of goods of dangerous or hazardous nature to human life; (m) standardsfor emission of air pollutants; 2[(n) installation of catalytic convertors in the class of vehicles to be prescribed; (o) the placement of audio-visual or radio or tape recorder type of device in public vehicles; (p) warranty after sale of vehicle and norms therefor:] Provided that any rules relating to the matters dealing with the protection of environment, so far as may be, shall be made after consultation with the Ministry of the Government of India dealing with environment. (2) Rules may be made under sub-section (1) governing the matters mentioned therein, including the manner of ensuring the compliance with such matters and the maintenance of motor vehicles in respect of such matters, either generally in respect of motor vehicles or trailers or in respect of motor vehicles or trailers of a particular class or in particular circumstances 1[and such rules may lay down the procedure for investigation, the officers empowered to conduct such investigations, the procedure for hearing of such matters and the penalties to be levied thereunder.] 1[(2A) Persons empowered under sub-section (2) to conduct investigations referred to in sub-section (2) shall have all the powers of a civil court, while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) in respect of the following matters, namely:— (a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath; (b) requiring the discovery and production of any document; (c) receiving evidence on affidavit; and (d) any other matter as may be prescribed.] (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section,— (a) the Central Government may exempt any class of motor vehicles from the provisions of this Chapter; (b) a State Government may exempt any motor vehicle or any class or description of motor vehicles from the rules made under sub-section (1) subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the Central Government. 3[110A. Recall of motor vehicles. —(1) The Central Government may, by order, direct a manufacturer to recall motor vehicles of a particular type or its variants, if— (a) a defect in that particular type of motor vehicle may cause harm to the environment or to the driver or occupants of such motor vehicle or other road users; and (b) a defect in that particular type of motor vehicle has been reported to the Central Government by—