91 sum of five lakh rupees in case of death or of two and a half lakh rupees in case of grievous hurt to the legal heirs or the victim, as the case may be. (2) In any claim for compensation under sub-section (1), the claimant shall not be required to plead or establish that the death or grievous hurt in respect of which the claim has been made was due to any wrongful act or neglect or default of the owner of the vehicle or of the vehicle concerned or of any other person. (3) Where, in respect of death or grievous hurt due to an accident arising out of the use of motor vehicle, compensation has been paid under any other law for the time being in force, such amount of compensation shall be reduced from the amount of compensation payable under this section. 164A. Scheme for interim relief for claimants. — (1) The Central Government, may make schemes for the provision of interim relief to claimants praying for compensation under this Chapter. (2) A scheme made under sub-section (1) shall also provide for procedure to recover funds disbursed under such scheme from the owner of the motor vehicle, where the claim arises out of the use of such motor vehicle or other sources as may be prescribed by the Central Government. 164B. Motor Vehicle Accident Fund. — (1) The Central Government shall constitute a Fund to be called the Motor Vehicle Accident Fund and thereto shall be credited— (a) payment of a nature notified and approved by the Central Government; (b) any grant or loan made to the Fund by the Central Government; (c) the balance of the Fund created under scheme framed under section 163, as it stood immediately before the commencement of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019; and (d) any other source of income as may be prescribed by the Central Government. (2) The Fund shall be constituted for the purpose of providing compulsory insurance cover to all road users in the territory of India. (3) The Fund shall be utilised for the following, namely:— (a) treatment of the persons injured in road accidents in accordance with the scheme framed by the Central Government under section 162; (b) compensation to representatives of a person who died in hit and run motor accident in accordance with schemes framed under section 161; (c) compensation to a person grievously hurt in a hit and run motor accident in accordance with schemes framed under section 161; and (d) compensation to such persons as may be prescribed by the Central Government. (4) The maximum liability amount that shall be paid in each case shall be such as may be prescribed by the Central Government. (5) In all cases specified in clause (a) of sub-section (3), when the claim of such person becomes payable, where amount has been paid out of this Fund to any person, the same amount shall be deductible from the claim received by such person from the insurance company. (6) The Fund shall be managed by such authority or agency as the Central Government may specify having regard to the following:— (a) knowledge of insurance business of the agency;