64 alighting from the vehicle, or purports to impose any conditions with respect to the enforcement of any such liability, be void. 93. 1[Agent or canvasser or aggregator to obtain licence.]— (1) No person shall engage himself— (i) as an agent or a canvasser, in the sale of tickets for travel by public service vehicles or in otherwise soliciting custom for such vehicles, or (ii) as an agent in the business of collecting, forwarding or distributing goods carried by goods carriages, 2[(iii) as an aggregator,] unless he has obtained a licence from such authority and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by the State Government. 2[Provided that while issuing the licence to an aggregator the State Government may follow such guidelines as may be issued by the Central Government: Provided further that every aggregator shall comply with the provisions of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000) and the rules and regulations made thereunder.] (2) The conditions referred to in sub-section (1) may include all or any of the following matters, namely:— (a) the period for which a licence may be granted or renewed; (b) the fee payable for the issue or renewal of the licence; (c) the deposit of security— (i) of a sum not exceeding rupees fifty thousand in the case of an agent in the business of collecting, forwarding or distributing goods carried by goods carriages; (ii) of a sum not exceeding rupees five thousand in the case of any other agent or canvasser, and the circumstances under which the security may be forfeited; (d) the provision by the agent of insurance of goods in transit; (e) the authority by which and the circumstances under which the licence may be suspended or revoked; (f) such other conditions as may be prescribed by the State Government. (3) It shall be a condition of every licence that no agent or canvasser to whom the licence is granted shall advertise in any newspaper, book, list, classified directory or other publication unless there is contained in such advertisement appearing in such newspapers, book, list, classified directory or other publication the licence number, the date of expiry of licence and the particulars of the authority which granted the licence. 94. Bar on jurisdiction of Civil Courts.—No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any question relating to the grant of a permit 3[or licence issued under any scheme] under this Act, and no injunction in respect of any action taken or to be taken by the duly constituted authorities under this Act with regard to the grant of a permit 3[or licence issued under any scheme], shall be entertained by any Civil Court. 95. Power of State Government to make rules as to stage carriages and contract carriages.—(1) A State Government may make rules to regulate, in respect of stage carriages and contract carriages and the conduct of passengers in such vehicles. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, such rules may—
1. Subs. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 36, for the marginal heading “Agent or canvasser to obtain licence” (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 2. Ins. by s. 36, ibid., (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 3. Ins. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 37 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).