104 beyond the side of the body or to the front or to the rear or in height beyond the permissible limit shall be punishable with a fine of twenty thousand rupees, together with the liability to pay charges for off-loading of such load: Provided that such motor vehicle shall not be allowed to move before such load is arranged in a manner such that there is no extension of the load laterally beyond the side of the body or to the front or to the rear or in height beyond the permissible limit: Provided further that nothing in this sub-section shall apply when such motor vehicle has been given an exemption by the competent authority authorised in this behalf, by the State Government or the Central Government, allowing the carriage of a particular load.] (2) Any driver of a vehicle who refuses to stop and submit his vehicle to weighing after being directed to do so by an officer authorised in this behalf under section 114 or removes or causes the removal of the load or part of it prior to weighing shall be punishable with fine 1[of forty thousand rupees]. 2[194A. Carriage of excess passengers.—Whoever drives a transport vehicle or causes or allows a transport vehicle to be driven while carrying more passengers than is authorised in the registration certificate of such transport vehicle or the permit conditions applicable to such transport vehicle shall be punishable with a fine of two hundred rupees per excess passenger: Provided that such transport vehicle shall not be allowed to move before the excess passengers are off-loaded and an alternative transport is arranged for such passengers. 194B. Use of safety belts and the seating of children.—(1) Whoever drives a motor vehicle without wearing a safety belt or carries passengers not wearing seat belts shall be punishable with a fine of one thousand rupees: Provided that the State Government, may by notification in the Official Gazette, exclude the application of this sub-section to transport vehicles to carry standing passengers or other specified classes of transport vehicles. (2) Whoever drives a motor vehicle or causes or allows a motor vehicle to be driven with a child who, not having attained the age of fourteen years, is not secured by a safety belt or a child restraint system shall be punishable with a fine of one thousand rupees. 194C. Penalty for violation of safety measures for motor cycle drivers and pillion riders.—Whoever drives a motor cycle or causes or allows a motor cycle to be driven in contravention of the provisions of section 128 or the rules or regulations made thereunder shall be punishable with a fine of one thousand rupees and he shall be disqualified for holding licence for a period of three months. 194D. Penalty for not wearing protective headgear.—Whoever drives a motor cycle or causes or allows a motor cycle to be driven in contravention of the provisions of section 129 or the rules or regulations made thereunder shall be punishable with a fine of one thousand rupees and he shall be disqualified for holding licence for a period of three months. 194E. Failure to allow free passage to emergency vehicles.—Whoever while driving a motor vehicle fails to draw to the side of the road, on the approach of a fire service vehicle or of an ambulance or other emergency vehicle as may be specified by the State Government, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with a fine of ten thousand rupees or with both. 194F. Use of horns and silence zones.—Whoever— (a) while driving a motor vehicle— (i) sounds the horn needlessly or continuously or more than necessary to ensure safety, or (ii) sounds the horn in an area with a traffic sign prohibiting the use of a horn, or