62 1[88A. Power of Central Government to make schemes for national, multimodal and inter-State transport of passengers and goods.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, modify any permit issued under this Act or make schemes for national, multimodal and inter-State transportation of goods or passengers, and issue or modify licences under, such scheme for the following purposes, namely:— (a) last mile connectivity; (b) rural transport; (c) improving the movement of freight, and logistics; (d) betterutilisation of transportation assets; (e) the enhancement to the economic vitality of the area, especially by enabling competitiveness, productivity and efficiency; (f) the increase in the accessibility and mobility of people; (g) the protection and enhancement of the environment; (h) the promotion of energy conservation; (i) improvement of the quality of life; (j) enhancement of the integration and connectivity of the transportation system, across and between modes of transport; and (k) such other matters as the Central Government may deem fit: Provided that the Central Government may, before taking any action under this sub-section seek concurrence of the State Governments. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), two or more States may make schemes for the operation within such States for the inter-State transportation of goods or passengers: Provided that in the event of any repugnancy between the schemes made by the Central Government under sub-section (1) and schemes made by two or more States under this sub-section, the schemes made under sub-section (1) shall prevail.] 89. Appeals.—(1) Any person— (a) aggrieved by the refusal of the State or a Regional Transport Authority to grant a permit, or by any condition attached to a permit granted to him, or (b) aggrieved by the revocation or suspension of the permit or by any variation of the conditions thereof, or (c) aggrieved by the refusal to transfer the permit under section 82, or (d) aggrieved by the refusal of the State or a Regional Transport Authority to countersign a permit, or by any condition attached to such countersignature, or (e) aggrieved by the refusal of renewal of a permit, or (f) aggrieved by the refusal to grant permission under section 83, or (g) aggrieved by any other order which may be prescribed, may, within the prescribed time and in the prescribed manner, appeal to the State Transport Appellate Tribunal constituted under sub-section (2), who shall, after giving such person and the original authority an opportunity of being heard, give a decision thereon which shall be final. 2[(2) The State Government shall constitute such number of Transport Appellate Tribunals as it thinks fit and each such Tribunal shall consist of a judicial officer who is not below the rank of a
1. Ins. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 34 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 2. Subs. by Act 54 of 1994, s. 28, for sub-section (2) (w.e.f. 14-11-1994).
1. Subs. by Act 54 of 1994, s. 29, for sub-section (1) (w.e.f. 14-11-1994). 2. Subs. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 35, for “stage carriage or contract carriage, in respect of which a permit” (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).