94 (z) any other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed or in respect of which provision is to be made by rules. 164D. Power of State Government to make rules. — (1) The State Government may make rules for the purposes of carrying into effect, the provisions of this Chapter other than the matters specified in section 164C. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for— (a) the other authority under sub-section (5) of section 147; and (b) any other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed, or in respect of which provision is to be made by rules.] CHAPTER XII CLAIMS TRIBUNALS 165. Claims Tribunals.—(1) A State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute one or more Motor Accidents Claims Tribunals (hereafter in this Chapter referred to as Claims Tribunal) for such area as may be specified in the notification for the purpose of adjudicating upon claims for compensation in respect of accidents involving the death of, or bodily injury to, persons arising out of the use of motor vehicles, or damages to any property of a third party so arising, or both. Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the expression “claims for compensation in respect of accidents involving the death of or bodily injury to persons arising out of the use of motor vehicles” includes claims for compensation under 1[section 140 2[and section 163A]. (2) A Claims Tribunal shall consist of such number of members as the State Government may think fit to appoint and where it consists of two or more members, one of them shall be appointed as the Chairman thereof. (3) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a member of a Claims Tribunal unless he— (a) is, or has been, a Judge of a High Court, or (b) is, or has been, a District Judge, or (c) is qualified for appointment as a Judge of a High Court 2[or as a District Judge]. (4) Where two or more Claims Tribunals are constituted for any area, the State Government, may by general or special order, regulate the distribution of business among them. 166. Application for compensation.—(1) An application for compensation arising out of an accident of the nature specified in sub-section (1) of section 165 may be made— (a) by the person who has sustained the injury; or (b) by the owner of the property; or (c) where death has resulted from the accident, by all or any of the legal representatives of the deceased; or (d) by any agent duly authorised by the person injured or all or any of the legal representatives of the deceased, as the case may be: Provided that where all the legal representatives of the deceased have not joined in any such application for compensation, the application shall be made on behalf of or for the benefit of all the legal representatives of the deceased and the legal representatives who have not so joined, shall be impleaded as respondents to the application.
1. Subs. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 52, for “section 164” (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 2. Added by Act 54 of 1994, s. 52 (w.e.f. 14-11-1994).
7[(5) Notwithstanding anything in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, the right of a