105 (b) drives a motor vehicle which makes use of a cut-out by which exhaust gases are released other than through the silencer, shall be punishable with a fine of one thousand rupees and for a second or subsequent offence with a fine of two thousand rupees.] 195. [Imposition of minimum fine under certain circumstances.]—Omitted by Act The Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019 (32 of 2019), s. 80 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019). 196. Driving uninsured vehicle.—Whoever drives a motor vehicle or causes or allows a motor vehicle to be driven in contravention of the provisions of section 146 shall be punishable 1[for the first offence] with imprisonment which may extend to three months, or with fine 2[of two thousand rupees], or with both 1[, and for a subsequent offence shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine of four thousand rupees, or with both.] 197. Taking vehicle without authority.—(1) Whoever takes and drives away any motor vehicle without having either the consent of the owner thereof or other lawful authority shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three months or with fine 3[of five thousand rupees], or with both. Provided that no person shall be convicted under this section if the Court is satisfied that such person acted in the reasonable belief that he had lawful authority or in the reasonable belief that the owner would in the circumstances of the case have given his consent if he had been asked therefor. (2) Whoever, unlawfully by force or threat of force or by any other form of intimidation, seizes or exercises control of a motor vehicle, shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three months, or with fine 3[of five thousand rupees], or with both. (3) Whoever attempts to commit any of the acts referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) in relation to any motor vehicle, or abets the commission of any such act, shall also be deemed to have committed an offence under sub-section (1) or, as the case may be, sub-section (2). 198. Unauthorised interference with vehicle.—Whoever otherwise than with lawful authority or reasonable execuse enters or mounts any stationary motor vehicle or tampers with the brake or any part of the mechanism of a motor vehicle shall be punishable 4[with fine of one thousand rupees]. 5[198A. Failure to comply with standards for road design, construction and maintenance.—(1) Any designated authority, contractor, consultant or concessionaire responsible for the design or construction or maintenance of the safety standards of the road shall follow such design, construction and maintenance standards, as may be prescribed by the Central Government from time to time. (2) Where failure on the part of the designated authority, contractor, consultant or concessionaire responsible under sub-section (1) to comply with standards for road design, construction and maintenance, results in death or disability, such authority or contractor or concessionaire shall be punishable with a fine which may extend to one lakh rupees and the same shall be paid to the Fund constituted under section 164B. (3) For the purposes of sub-section (2), the court shall in particular have regard to the following matters, namely:— (a) the characteristics of the road, and the nature and type of traffic which was reasonably expected to use it as per the design of road; (b) the standard of maintenance norms applicable for a road of that character and use by such traffic; (c) the state of repair in which road users would have expected to find the road;