54 76. Application for private service vehicle permit.—(1) A Regional Transport Authority may, on an application made to it, grant a private service vehicle permit in accordance with the application or with such modification as it deems fit or refuse to grant such permit: Provided that no such permit shall be granted in respect of any area or route not specified in the application. (2) An application for a permit to use a motor vehicle as a private service vehicle shall contain the following particulars, namely:— (a) type and seating capacity of the vehicle; (b) the area or the route or routes to which the application relates; (c) the manner in which it is claimed that the purpose of carrying persons otherwise than for hire or reward or in connection with the trade or business carried on by the applicant will be served by the vehicle; and (d) any other particulars which may be prescribed. (3) The Regional Transport Authority if it decides to grant the permit may, subject to any rules that may be made under this Act, attach to the permit any one or more of the following conditions, namely:— (i) that the vehicle be used only in a specified area or on a specified route or routes; (ii) the maximum number of persons and the maximum weight of luggage that may be carried; (iii) that the Regional Transport Authority may, after giving notice of not less than one month— (a) vary the conditions of the permit; (b) attach to the permit further conditions; (iv) that the conditions of permit shall not be departed from, save with the approval of the Regional Transport Authority; (v) that specified standards of comforts and cleanliness shall be maintained in the vehicle; (vi) that the holder of the permit shall furnish to the Regional Transport Authority such periodical returns, statistics and other information as the State Government may, from time to time, specify; and (vii) such other conditions as may be prescribed. 77. Application for goods carriage permit.—An application for a permit to use a motor vehicle for the carriage of goods for hire or reward or for the carriage of goods for or in connection with a trade or business carried on by the applicant (in this Chapter referred to as a goods carriage permit) shall, as far as may be, contain the following particulars, namely:— (a) the area or the route or routes to which the application relates; (b) the type and capacity of the vehicle; (c) the nature of the goods it is proposed to carry; (d) the arrangements intended to be made for the housing, maintenance and repair of the vehicle and for the storage and safe custody of the goods; (e) such particulars as the Regional Transport Authority may require with respect to any business as a carrier of goods for hire or reward carried on by the applicant at any time before the making of the application, and of the rates charged by the applicant; (f) particulars of any agreement, or arrangement, affecting in any material respect the provision within the region of the Regional Transport Authority of facilities for the transport of goods for hire or reward, entered into by the applicant with any other person by whom such facilities are provided, whether within or without the region; (g) any other particulars which may be prescribed.
1. Subs. by Act 54 of 1994, s. 25, for “Regional Transport Authority” (w.e.f. 14-11-1994).