55 78. Consideration of application for goods carriage permit.—A Regional Transport Authority shall, in considering an application for a goods carriage permit, have regard to the following matters, namely:— (a) the nature of the goods to be carried with special reference to their dangerous or hazardous nature to human life; (b) the nature of the chemicals or explosives to be carried with special reference to the safety to human life. 79. Grant of goods carriage permit.—(1) A Regional Transport Authority may, on an application made to it under section 77, grant a goods carriage permit to be valid throughout the State or in accordance with the application or with such modifications as it deems fit or refuse to grant such a permit: Provided that no such permit shall be granted in respect of any area or route not specified in the application. (2) The Regional Transport Authority, if it decides to grant a goods carriage permit, may grant the permit and may, subject to any rules that may be made under this Act, attach to the permit any one or more of the following conditions, namely:— (i) that the vehicle shall be used only in a specified area or on a specified route or routes; (ii) that the gross vehicle weight of any vehicle used shall not exceed a specified maximum; (iii) that goods of a specified nature shall not be carried; (iv) that goods shall be carried at specified rates; (v) that specified arrangement shall be made for the housing, maintenance and repair of the vehicle and the storage and safe custody of the goods carried; (vi) that the holder of the permit shall furnish to the Regional Transport Authority such periodical returns, statistics and other information as the State Government may, from time to time, prescribe; (vii) that the Regional Transport Authority may, after giving notice of not less than one month,— (a) vary the conditions of the permit; (b) attach to the permit further conditions; (viii) that the conditions of the permit shall not be departed from, save with the approval of the Regional Transport Authority; (ix) any other conditions which may be prescribed. (3) The conditions referred to in sub-section (2) may include conditions relating to the packaging and carriage of goods of dangerous or hazardous nature to human life. 80. Procedure in applying for and granting permits.—(1) An application for a permit of any kind may be made at any time. (2) A 1[Regional Transport Authority, State Transport Authority or any prescribed authority referred to in sub-section (1) of section 66] shall not ordinarily refuse to grant an application for permit of any kind made at any time under this Act: Provided that the 1[Regional Transport Authority, State Transport Authority or any prescribed authority referred to in sub-section (1) of section 66] may summarily refuse the application if the grant of any permit in accordance with the application would have the effect of increasing the number of stage carriages as fixed and specified in a notification in the Official Gazette under clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 71 or of contract carriages as fixed and specified in a notification in the Official Gazette under clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 74:
1. Subs. by Act 54 of 1994, s. 25, for “Regional Transport Authority” (w.e.f. 14-11-1994). 2. Subs. by s. 26, ibid., for “without renewal” (w.e.f. 14-11-1994).