70 Provided that where the State transport undertaking fails to make the payment within the said period of one month, it shall pay interest at the rate of seven per cent. per annum from the date on which it falls due. 106. Disposal of article found in vehicles.—Where any article found in any transport vehicle operated by the State transport undertaking is not claimed by its owner within the prescribed period, the State transport undertaking may sell the article in the prescribed manner and the sale proceeds thereof, after deducting the costs incidental to sale, shall be paid to the owner on demand. 107. Power of State Government to make rules.—(1) The State Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Chapter. (2) Inparticular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:— (a) the form in which any proposal regarding a scheme may be published under section 99; (b) the manner in which objections may be filed under sub-section (1) of section 100; (c) the manner in which objections may be considered and disposed of under sub-section (2) of section 100; (d) the form in which any approved scheme may be published under sub-section (3) of section 100; (e) the manner in which application under sub-section (1) of section 103 may be made; (f) the period within which the owner may claim any article found left in any transport vehicle under section 106 and the manner of sale of such article; (g) the manner of service of orders under this Chapter; (h) any other matter which has to be, or may be, prescribed. 108. Certain powers of State Government exercisable by the Central Government.—The powers conferred on the State Government under this Chapter shall, in relation to a corporation or company owned or controlled by the Central Government or by the Central Government and one or more State Governments, be exercisable only by the Central Government in relation to an inter-State route or area. CHAPTER VII CONSTRUCTION, EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF MOTOR VEHICLES 109. General provision regarding construction and maintenance of vehicles.—(1) Every motor vehicle shall be so constructed and so maintained as to be at all times under the effective control of the person driving the vehicle. (2) Every motor vehicle shall be so constructed as to have right hand steering control unless it is equipped with a mechanical or electrical signalling device of a prescribed nature. 1[(3) If the Central Government is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do in the public interest, it may by order published in the Official Gazette, notify that any article or process used by a manufacturer shall conform to such standard as may be specified in that order.] 110. Power of Central Government to make rules.—(1) The Central Government may make rules regulating the construction, equipment and maintenance of motor vehicles and trailers with respect to all or any of the following matters, namely:— (a) the width, height, length and overhang of vehicles and of the loads carried; 2[(b) the size, nature, maximum retail price and condition of tyres, including embossing thereon of date and year of manufacture and the maximum load carrying capacity;] (c) brakes and steering gear; (d) the use of safety glasses including prohibition of the use of tinted safety glasses; (e) signalling appliances, lamps and reflectors; (f) speed governors;