27 34. Power of licensing authority to disqualify.—(1) If any licensing authority is of opinion that it is necessary to disqualify the holder of a conductor’s licence for holding or obtaining such a licence on account of his previous conduct as a conductor, it may, for reasons to be recorded, make an order disqualifying that person for a specified period, not exceeding one year, for holding or obtaining a conductor’s licence: Provided that before disqualifying the holder of a licence, the licensing authority shall give the person holding such licence a reasonable opportunity of being heard. (2) Upon the issue of any such order, the holder of the conductor’s licence shall forthwith surrender the licence to the authority making the order, if the licence has not already been surrendered, and the authority shall keep the licence until the disqualification has expired or has been removed. (3) Where the authority disqualifying the holder of a conductor’s licence under this section is not the authority which issued the licence, it shall intimate the fact of such disqualification to the authority which issued the same. (4) Any person aggrieved by an order made under sub-section (1) may, within thirty days of the service on him of the order, appeal to the prescribed authority which shall decide the appeal after giving such person and the authority which made the order an opportunity of being heard and the decision of the appellate authority shall be binding on the authority which made the order. 35. Power of Court to disqualify.—(1) Where any person holding a conductor’s licence is convicted of an offence under this Act, the Court by which such person is convicted may, in addition to imposing any other punishment authorised by law, declare the person so convicted to be disqualified for such period as the Court may specify for holding a conductor’s licence. (2) The Court to which an appeal lies from any conviction of an offence under this Act may set aside or vary any order of disqualification made by the Court below, and the Court to which appeals ordinarily lie from such Court, may set aside or vary any order of disqualification made by that Court, notwithstanding that no appeal lies against the conviction in connection with which such order was made. 36. Certain provisions of Chapter II to apply to conductor’s licence.—The provisions of sub-section (2) of section 6, sections 14, 15 and 23, sub-section (1) of section 24 and section 25 shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to a conductor’s licence, as they apply in relation to a driving licence. 37. Savings.—If any licence to act as a conductor of a stage carriage (by whatever name called) has been issued in any State and is effective immediately before the commencement of this Act, it shall continue to be effective, notwithstanding such commencement, for the period for which it would have been effective, if this Act had not been passed, and every such licence shall be deemed to be a licence issued under this Chapter as if this Chapter had been in force on the date on which that licence was granted. 38. Power of State Government to make rules.—(1) A State Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Chapter. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for— (a) the appointment, jurisdiction, control and functions of licensing authorities and other prescribed authorities under this Chapter; (b) the conditions subject to which drivers of stage carriages performing the functions of a conductor and persons temporarily employed to act as conductors may be exempted from the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 29; (c) the minimum educational qualifications of conductors; their duties and functions and the conduct of persons to whom conductor’s licences are issued; (d) the form of application for conductor’s licences or for renewal of such licences and the particulars it may contain; (e) the form in which conductor’s licences may be issued or renewed and the particulars it may contain;