1. Ins. by Act 32 of 2019, s. 89 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).
112 (a) design, construction and maintenance standards for National highways; (b) such other factors as may be taken into account by the Court under sub-section (3) of section 198A; (c) any other matter which is, or has to be, prescribed by the Central Government. 210D. Power of State Government to make rules.—The State Government may make rules for design, construction and maintenance standards for roads other than national highways, and for any other matter which is, or may be, prescribed by the State Government.] CHAPTER XIV MISCELLANEOUS 211. Power to levy fee.—Any rule which the Central Government or the State Government is empowered to make under this Act may, notwithstanding the absence of any express provision to that effect, provide for the levy of such fees in respect of applications, amendment of documents, issue of certificates, licences, permits, tests, endorsements, badges, plates, countersignatures, authorisation, supply of statistics or copies of documents or orders and for any other purpose or matter involving the rendering of any service by the officers or authorities under this Act or any rule made thereunder as may be considered necessary: Provided that the Government may, if it considers necessary so to do, in the public interest, by general or special order, exempt any class of persons from the payment of any such fee either in part or in full. 1[211A. Use of electronic forms and documents.—(1) Where any provision of this Act or the rules and regulations made there under provide for— (a) the filing of any form, application or any other document with any office, authority, body or agency owned or controlled by the Central Government or the State Government in a particular manner; (b) the issue or grant of any licence, permit, sanction, approval or endorsement, by whatever name called in a particular manner; or (c) the receipt or payment of money in a particular manner, then notwithstanding anything contained in such provision, such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such filing, issue, grant, receipt or payment, as the case may be, is effected by means of such electronic form as may be prescribed by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be. (2) The Central Government or the State Government shall, for the purpose of sub-section (1), prescribe— (a) the manner and format in which such electronic forms and documents shall be filed, created or issued; and (b) the manner or method of payment of any fee or charges for filing, creation or issue of any electronic document under clause (a).] 212. Publication, commencement and laying of rules and notifications.—(1) The power to make rules under this Act is subject to the condition of the rules being made after previous publication. (2) All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall unless some later date is appointed, come into force on the date of such publication. (3) Every rule made by any State Government shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made before the State Legislature. (4) Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act, every scheme made by the Central Government under sub-section (1) of section 75 and sub-section (1) of section 163 and every notification issued by the Central Government under sub-section (4) of section 41, sub-section (1) of section 58,