CHAPTER XIV
M ISCELLANEOUS
211. Power to levy fee.—Any rule which the Central Government or the State Government is
empowered to make under this Act may, notwithstanding the absence of any express provision to that
effect, provide for the levy of such fees in respect of applications, amendment of documents, issue of
certificates, licences, permits, tests, endorsements, badges, plates, countersignatures, authorisation, supply
of statistics or copies of documents or orders and for any other purpose or matter involving the rendering
of any service by the officers or authorities under this Act or any rule made thereunder as may be
considered necessary:
Provided that the Government may, if it considers necessary so to do, in the public interest, by
general or special order, exempt any class of persons from the payment of any such fee either in part or in
full.
1
[211A. Use of electronic forms and documents. — (1) Where any provision of this Act or the rules
and regulations made there under provide for —
(a) the filing of any form, application or any other document with any office, authority, body or
agency owned or controlled by the Central Government or the State Government in a particular
manner;
(b) the issue or grant of any licence, permit, sanction, approval or endorsement, by whatever name
called in a particular manner; or
(c) the receipt or payment of money in a particular manner, then notwithstanding anything
contained in such provision, such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such filing,
issue, grant, receipt or payment, as the case may be, is effected by means of such electronic form as
may be prescribed by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be.
(2) The Central Government or the State Government shall, for the purpose of sub-section (1),
prescribe—
(a) the manner and format in which such electronic forms and documents shall be filed, created or
issued; and
(b) the manner or method of payment of any fee or charges for filing, creation or issue of any
electronic document under clause (a).]
212. Publication, commencement and laying of rules and notifications.—(1) The power to make
rules under this Act is subject to the condition of the rules being made after previous publication.
(2) All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Official Gazette, and shall unless some
later date is appointed, come into force on the date of such publication.
(3) Every rule made by any State Government shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made before
the State Legislature.
(4) Every rule made by the Central Government under this Act, every scheme made by the Central
Government under sub-section (1) of section 75 and sub-section (1) of section 163 and every notification
issued by the Central Government under sub-section (4) of section 41, sub-section (1) of section 58,
112sub-section (1) of section 59, the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 112, 1 [section 118] 2 [sub-section (4)
of section 163A] 1 [section 164, section 177A] and sub-section (4) of section 213 shall be laid, as soon as
may be after it is made, before each House of Parliament while it is in session for a total period of thirty
days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the
expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses
agree in making any modification in the rule, scheme or notification or both Houses agree that the rule or
scheme should not be made or the notification should not be issued, the rule, scheme or notification shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that
any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done
under that rule, scheme or notification.
1
[(5) Every notification issued by the State Government under section 210A shall be laid, as soon as
may be after it is made, before each House of the State Legislature where it consists of two Houses, or
where such Legislature consists of one House, before that House, while it is in session for a total period of
thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before
the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, the
House agrees or both Houses agree, as the case may be, in making any modification in the notification or
the House agrees or both Houses agree, as the case may be, that the notification should not be issued, the
notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect as the case may be;
so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done under that notification.]
213. Appointment of motor vehicles officers.—(1) The State Government may, for the purpose of
carrying into effect the provisions of this Act, establish a Motor Vehicles Department and appoint as
officers thereof such persons as it thinks fit.
(2) Every such officer shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of the Indian Penal
Code (45 of 1860).
(3) The State Government may make rules to regulate the discharge by officers of the Motor Vehicles
Department of their functions and in particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
power to prescribe the uniform to be worn by them, the authorities to which they shall be subordinate, the
duties to be performed by them, the powers (including the powers exercisable by police officers under
this Act) to be exercised by them, and the conditions governing the exercise of such powers.
(4) The Central Government may, having regard to the objects of the Act, by notification in the
Official Gazette, prescribe the minimum qualifications which the said officers or any class thereof shall
possess for being appointed as such.
(5) In addition to the powers that may be conferred on any officer of the Motor Vehicles Department
under sub-section (3), such officer as may be empowered by the State Government in this behalf shall
also have the power to,—
(a) make such examination and inquiry as he thinks fit in order to ascertain whether the
provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder are being observed;
(b) with such assistance, if any, as he thinks fit, enter, inspect and search any premises which is in
the occupation of a person who, he has reason to believe, has committed an offence under this Act or
in which a motor vehicle in respect of which such offence has been committed is kept:
Provided that,—
(i) any such search without a warrant shall be made only by an officer of the rank of a
gazetted officer;
(ii) where the offence is punishable with fine only the search shall not be made after sunset
and before sunrise;
113(iii) where the search is made without a warrant, the gazetted officer concerned shall record
in writing the grounds for not obtaining a warrant and report to his immediate superior that such
search has been made;
(c) examine any person and require the production of any register or other document maintained
in pursuance of this Act, and take on the spot or otherwise statements of any person which he may
consider necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act;
(d) seize or take copies of any registers or documents or portions thereof as he may consider
relevant in respect of an offence under this Act which he has reason to believe has been committed;
(e) launch prosecutions in respect of any offence under this Act and to take a bond for ensuring
the attendance of the offender before any court;
(f) exercise such other powers as may be prescribed:
Provided that no person shall be compelled under this sub-section to answer any question or make
any statement tending to incriminate himself.
(6) The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) shall, so far as may be apply
to any search or seizure under this section as they apply to any search or seizure under the authority of
any warrant issued under section 94 of that Code.
214. Effect of appeal and revision on orders passed by original authority.—(1) Where an appeal
has been preferred or an application for revision has been made against any order passed by an original
authority under this Act, the appeal or the application for revision shall not operate as a stay of the order
passed by the original authority and such order shall remain in force pending the disposal of the appeal or
the application for revision, as the case may be, unless the prescribed appellate authority or revisional
authority otherwise directs.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), if an application made by a person for the
renewal of permit has been rejected by the original authority and such person has preferred an appeal or
made an application for revision under this Act against such rejection, the appellate authority or, as the
case may be, the revisional authority may by order direct that the permit shall, notwithstanding the
expiration of the term specified therein, continue to be valid until the appeal or application for revision is
disposed of.
(3) No order made by a competent authority under this Act shall be reversed or altered on appeal or
revision on account of any error, omission or irregularity in the proceedings, unless it appears to the
prescribed appellate authority or revisional authority, as the case may be, that such error, omission or
irregularity has, in fact, occasioned a failure of justice.
215. Road Safety Councils and Committees.—(1) The Central Government may, by notification in
the Official Gazette, constitute for the country a National Road Safety Council consisting of a Chairman
and such other members as that Government considers necessary and on such terms and conditions as that
Government may determine.
(2) A State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute for the State a State
Road Safety Council consisting of a Chairman and such other members as that Government considers
necessary and on such terms and conditions as that Government may determine.
(3) A State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute District Road Safety
Committee for each district in the State consisting of a Chairman and such other members as that
Government considers necessary and on such terms and conditions as that Government may determine.
(4) The Councils and Committees referred to in this section shall discharge such functions relating to
the road safety programmes as the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be,
may, having regard to the objects of the Act, specify.
1141
[215A. Power of Central Government and State Government to delegate.—Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act,—
(a) the Central Government shall have the power to delegate any power or functions that have
been conferred upon it by the Act to any public servant or public authority and authorise such public
servant or public authority to discharge any of its powers, functions and duties under this Act;
(b) the State Government shall have the power to delegate any power or functions that have been
conferred upon it by the Act to any public servant or public authority and authorise such public
servant or public authority to discharge any of its powers, functions and duties under this Act.
215B. National Road Safety Board.—(1) The Central Government shall, by notification in the
Official Gazette, constitute a National Road Safety Board consisting of a Chairman, such number of
representatives from the State Governments, and such other members as it may consider necessary and on
such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Central Government.
(2) The National Board shall render advice to the Central Government or State Government, as the
case may be, on all aspects pertaining to road safety and traffic management including, but not limited
to,—
(a) the standards of design, weight, construction, manufacturing process, operation and
maintenance of motor vehicles and of safety equipment;
(b) the registration and licensing of motor vehicles;
(c) the formulation of standards for road safety, road infrastructure and control of traffic;
(d) the facilitation of safe and sustainable utilisation of road transport ecosystem;
(e) the promotion of new vehicle technology;
(f) the safety of vulnerable road users;
(g) programmes for educating and sensitising drivers and other road users; and
(h) such other functions as may be prescribed by the Central Government from time to time.
215C. Power of Central Government to make rules.—(1) The Central Government may make
rules for the purposes of carrying into effect the provisions of this Chapter.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for—
(a) the use of electronic forms and means for the filing of documents, issue or grant of licence,
permit, sanction, approval or endorsements and the receipt or payment of money as referred to in
section 211A;
(b) the minimum qualifications which the Motor Vehicles Department officers or any class
thereof shall be required to possess for appointment as such, as referred to in sub-section (4) of
section 213;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointment of Chairman and Members of the National Road
Safety Board under sub-section (1) of section 215B;
(d) the other functions of the National Road Safety Board under sub-section (2) of section 215B;
and
(e) any other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed, or in respect of which provision is to
be made by rules by the Central Government.
215D. Power of State Government to make rules.—(1) The State Government may make rules for
the purposes of carrying into effect, the provisions of this Chapter, other than the matters specified in
section 215C.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for—
115(a) the use of electronic forms and means for the filing of documents, issue or grant of licence,
permit, sanction, approval or endorsements and the receipt or payment of money as referred to in
section 211A;
(b) the duties and functions of the officers of the Motor Vehicle Department, the powers to be
exercised by such officers (including the powers exercisable by police officers under this Act) and the
conditions governing the exercise of such powers, the uniform to be worn by them, the authorities to
which they shall be subordinate as referred to in sub-section (3) of section 213;
(c) such other powers as may be exercised by officers of the Motor Vehicles Department as
referred to in clause (f) of sub-section (5) of section 213; and
(d) any other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed, or in respect of which provision is to
be made by rules by the State Government.]
216. Power to remove difficulties.—(1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of
this Act, the Central Government may, by order published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for removing
the difficulty:
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of three years from the date of
commencement of this Act.
(2) Every order made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each
House of Parliament.
217. Repeal and savings.—(1) The Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (4 of 1939) and any law corresponding
to that Act in force in any State immediately before the commencement of this Act in that State (hereafter
in this section referred to as the repealed enactments) are hereby repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding the repeal by sub-section (1) of the repealed enactments,—
(a) any notification, rule, regulation, order or notice issued, or any appointment or declaration
made, or exemption granted, or any confiscation made, or any penalty or fine imposed, any forfeiture,
cancellation or any other thing done, or any other action taken under the repealed enactments, and in
force immediately before such commencement shall, so far as it is not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, be deemed to have been issued, made, granted, done or taken under the
corresponding provision of this Act;
(b) any certificate of fitness or registration or licence or permit issued or granted under the
repealed enactments shall continue to have effect after such commencement under the same
conditions and for the same period as if this Act had not been passed;
(c) any document referring to any of the repealed enactments or the provisions thereof, shall be
construed as referring to this Act or to the corresponding provision of this Act;
(d) the assignment of distinguishing marks by the registering authority and the manner of display
on motor vehicles in accordance with the provision of the repealed enactments shall, after the
commencement of this Act, continue to remain in force until a notification under sub-section (6) of
section 41 of this Act is issued;
(e) any scheme made under section 68C of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (4 of 1939) or under the
corresponding law, if any, in force in any State and pending immediately before the commencement
of this Act shall be disposed of in accordance with the provisions of section 100 of this Act;
(f) the permits issued under sub-section (1A) of section 68F of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939
(4 of 1939), or under the corresponding provision, if any, in force in any State immediately before the
commencement of this Act shall continue to remain in force until the approved scheme under Chapter
VI of this Act is published.
(3) Any penalty payable under any of the repealed enactments may be recovered in the manner
provided by or under this Act, but without prejudice to any action already taken for the recovery of such
penalty under the repealed enactments.
116(4) The mention of particular matters in this section shall not be held to prejudice or affect the general
application of section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897), with regard to the effect of
repeals.
1
[217A. Renewal of permits, driving licences and registration granted under the Motor Vehicles
Act, 1939.—Notwithstanding the repeal by sub-section (1) of section 217 of the enactments referred to in
that sub-section, any certificate of fitness or registration or licence or permit issued or granted under the
said enactments may be renewed under this Act.]
1171
[THE FIRST SCHEDULE]
(See sections 116 and 119)
T RAFFIC S IGNS
Part A.—Mandatory Signs
Notes—(1) The figure 20 is given merely as an example. The actual figures will be as prescribed in each case where this sign is used.
(2) The general design of the post is given for guidance.
(3) Where the speed limit is, or is to be, imposed only on a certain class or classes of motor vehicle, the class or classes will be specified
on the “definition plate”. Where in addition to a general speed limit applicable to other motor vehicles a special speed limit is or is to be
imposed on vehicles of a certain class or classes, the general speed limit will be specified on the disc and the special speed limit together
with the class or classes of vehicle to which it applies, will be specified on the “definition plate”.
(4) The paints to be used on the traffic signs should be of reflecting kind.
1. The Schedule renumbered as the First Schedule thereof by Act 54 of 1994, s. 63 (w.e.f. 14-11-1994).
118119Note.—Sign NO.5 as here set forth may be amplified by instructions inscribed upon a definition plate placed below it as in the general
arrangement set forth in sign No. 1 of this Part. Upon the definition plate may be set forth the times during which parking is prohibited.
In like manner an arrow-head inscribed on the definition plate will indicate that parking is prohibited on that part of the street or road
lying to the side of the sign to which the arrow-head points.
120121Part B.—Cautionary Signs
The signs of this Part shall be used in conjunction with a red triangular plate, the centre of which shall be either bollow or painted white, in
the manner indicated in the general design reproduced below.
122123124125Part C.—Informatory Signs
1261271
[THE SECOND SCHEDULE.—[Schedule for compensation for third party fatal accidents/injury cases
claims] Omitted by the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019 (32 of 2019), s. 93 (w.e.f. 1-9-2019).]