C ONTROL OF TRAFFIC
112. Limits of speed.—(1) No person shall drive a motor vehicle or cause or allow a motor vehicle to
be driven in any public place at a speed exceeding the maximum speed or below the minimum speed
fixed for the vehicle under this Act or by or under any other law for the time being in force:
Provided that such maximum speed shall in no case exceed the maximum fixed for any motor vehicle
or class or description of motor vehicles by the Central Government by notification in the Official
Gazette.
(2) The State Government or any authority authorised in this behalf by the State Government may, if
satisfied that it is necessary to restrict the speed of motor vehicles in the interest of public safety or
convenience or because of the nature of any road or bridge, by notification in the Official Gazette, and by
causing appropriate traffic signs to be placed or erected under section 116 at suitable places, fix such
maximum speed limits or minimum speed limits as it thinks fit for motor vehicles or any specified class
or description of motor vehicles or for motor vehicles to which a trailer is attached, either generally or in
a particular area or on a particular road or roads:
Provided that no such notification is necessary if any restriction under this section is to remain in
force for not more than one month.
(3) Nothing in this section shall apply to any vehicle registered under section 60 while it is being used
in the execution of military manoeuvres within the area and during the period specified in the notification
under sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Manoeuvres, Field Firing and Artillery Practice Act, 1938
(5 of 1938).
73113. Limits of weight and limitations on use.—(1) The State Government may prescribe the
conditions for the issue of permits for 1 [transport vehicles] by the State or Regional Transport Authorities
and may prohibit or restrict the use of such vehicles in any area or route.
(2) Except as may be otherwise prescribed, no person shall drive or cause or allow to be driven in any
public place any motor vehicle which is not fitted with pneumatic tyres.
(3) No person shall drive or cause or allow to be driven in any public place any motor vehicle or
trailer—
(a) theunladen weight of which exceeds the unladen weight specified in the certificate of
registration of the vehicle, or
(b) the laden weight of which exceeds the gross vehicle weight specified in the certificate of
registration.
(4) Where the driver or person in charge of a motor vehicle or trailer driven in contravention of
sub-section (2) or clause (a) of sub-section (3) is not the owner, a Court may presume that the offence
was committed with the knowledge of or under the orders of the owner of the motor vehicle or trailer.
114. Power to have vehicle weighed.—(1) 2 [Any officer of the Motor Vehicles Department 3 [or any
other person authorised in this behalf by the State Government] shall, if he has reason to believe that a
goods vehicle or trailor is being used in contravention of section 113] require the driver to convey the
vehicle to a weighing device, if any, within a distance of ten kilometres from any point on the forward
route or within a distance of twenty kilometres from the destination of the vehicle for weighment; and if
on such weighment the vehicle is found to contravene in any respect the provisions of section 113
regarding weight, he may, by order in writing, direct the driver to off-load the excess weight at his own
risk and not to remove the vehicle or trailer from that place until the laden weight has been reduced or the
vehicle or trailer has otherwise been dealt with so that it complies with section 113 and on receipt of such
notice, the driver shall comply with such directions.
(2) Where the person authorised under sub-section (1) makes the said order in writing, he shall also
endorse the relevant details of the overloading on the goods carriage permit and also intimate the fact of
such endorsement to the authority which issued that permit.
115. Power to restrict the use of vehicles.—The State Government or any authority authorised in
this behalf by the State Government, if satisfied that it is necessary in the interest of public safety or
convenience, or because of the nature of any road or bridge, may by notification in the Official Gazette,
prohibit or restrict, subject to such exceptions and conditions as may be specified in notification, the
driving of motor vehicles or of any specified class or description of motor vehicles or the use of trailers
either generally in a specified area or on a specified road and when any such prohibition or restriction is
imposed, shall cause appropriate traffic signs to be placed or erected under section 116 at suitable places:
Provided that where any prohibition or restriction under this section is to remain in force for not more
than one month, notification thereof in the Official Gazette shall not be necessary, but such local publicity
as the circumstances may permit, shall be given of such prohibition or restriction.
116. Power to erect traffic signs.—(1) (a) The State Government or any authority authorised in this
behalf by the State Government may cause or permit traffic signs to be placed or erected in any public
place for the purpose of bringing to public notice any speed limits fixed under sub-section (2) of
section 112 or any prohibitions or restrictions imposed under section 115 or generally for the purpose of
regulating motor vehicle traffic.
(b) A State Government or any authority authorised in this behalf by the State Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette or by the erection at suitable places of the appropriate traffic sign
referred to in Part A of the Schedule, designate certain roads as main roads for the purposes of the driving
regulations made by the Central Government.
741
[(1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the National Highways Authority of
India constituted under the National Highways Authority of India Act, 1988 (68 of 1988) or any other
agency authorised by the Central Government, may cause or permit traffic signs, as provided in the First
Schedule, to be placed or erected or removed on national highways for the purpose of regulating motor
vehicle traffic and may order the removal of any sign or advertisement which in its opinion is so placed as
to obscure any traffic sign from view or is so similar in appearance to a traffic sign as to mislead or is
likely to distract the attention or concentration of the driver:
Provided that for the purposes of this sub-section, the National Highway Authority of India or any
other agency authorised by the Central Government may seek assistance from the authorities of the State
Government and the said State Government shall provide such assistance.]
(2) Traffic signs placed or erected under sub-section (1) for any purpose for which provision is made
in the Schedule shall be of the size, colour and type and shall have the meanings set forth in the Schedule,
but the State Government or any authority empowered in this behalf by the State Government may make
or authorise the addition to any sign set forth in the said Schedule, of transcriptions of the words, letters or
figures thereon in such script as the State Government may think fit, provided that the transcriptions shall
be of similar size and colour to the words, letters or figures set forth in the Schedule.
(3) Except as provided by sub-section (1) 1 [or sub-section (1A)], no traffic sign shall, after the
commencement of this Act, be placed or erected on or near any road; but all traffic signs placed or erected
prior to the commencement of this Act by any competent authority shall for the purpose of this Act be
deemed to be traffic signs placed or erected under the provisions of sub-section (1).
(4) A State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, empower any police officer not
below the rank of a Superintendent of Police to remove or cause to be removed any sign or advertisement
which is so placed in his opinion as to obscure any traffic sign from view or any sign or advertisement
which is in his opinion so similar in appearance to a traffic sign as to be misleading or which in his
opinion is likely to distract the attention or concentration of the driver.
(5) No person shall wilfully remove, alter, deface, or in any way tamper with, any traffic signs placed
or erected under this section.
(6) If any person accidentally causes such damage to a traffic sign as renders it useless for the purpose
for which it is placed or erected under this section, he shall report the circumstances of the occurrence to a
police officer or at a police station as soon as possible, and in any case within twenty-four hours of the
occurrence.
(7) For the purpose of bringing the signs set forth in 2 [the First Schedule] in conformity with any
International Convention relating to motor traffic to which the Central Government is for the time being a
party, the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make any addition or
alteration to any such sign and on the issue of any such notification, 1 [the First Schedule] shall be deemed
to be amended accordingly.
117. Parking places and halting stations.—The State Government or any authority authorised in
this behalf by the State Government may, in consultation with the local authority having jurisdiction in
the area concerned, determine places at which motor vehicles may stand either indefinitely or for a
specified period of time, and may determine the places at which public service vehicles may stop for a
longer time than is necessary for the taking up and setting down of passengers.
3
[Provided that the State Government or the authorised authority shall, give primacy to the safety of
road users and the free flow of traffic in determining such places:
Provided further that for the purpose of this section the National Highways Authority of India,
constituted under the National Highways Authority of India Act, 1988 (68 of 1988) or any other agency
authorised by the Central Government, may also determine such places.]
75118. Driving regulations.—The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette,
make regulations for the driving of motor vehicles.
119. Duty to obey traffic signs.—(1) Every driver of a motor vehicle shall drive the vehicle in
conformity with any indication given by mandatory traffic sign and in conformity with the driving
regulations made by the Central Government, and shall comply with all directions given to him by any
police officer for the time being engaged in the regulation of traffic in any public place.
(2) In this section “mandatory traffic sign” means a traffic sign included in Part A of the Schedule, or
any traffic sign of similar form (that is to say, consisting of or including a circular disc diplaying a device,
word or figure and having a red ground or border) placed or erected for the purpose of regulating motor
vehicle traffic under sub-section (1) of section 116.
120. Vehicles with left hand control.—No person shall drive or cause or allow to be driven in any
public place any motor vehicle with a left-hand steering control unless it is equipped with a mechanical or
electrical signalling device of a prescribed nature and in working order.
121. Signals and signalling devices.—The driver of a motor vehicle shall make such signals and on
such occasions as may be prescribed by the Central Government:
Provided that the signal of an intention to turn to the right or left or to stop—
(a) in the case of a motor vehicle with a right-hand steering control, may be given by a
mechanical or electrical device of a prescribed nature affixed to the vehicle; and
(b) in the case of a motor vehicle with a left-hand steering control, shall be given by a mechanical
or electrical device of a prescribed nature affixed to the vehicle:
Provided further that the State Government may, having regard to the width and condition of the
roads in any area or route, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt subject to such conditions as
may be specified therein any motor vehicle or class or description of motor vehicles from the operation of
this section for the purpose of plying in that area or route.
122. Leaving vehicle in dangerous position.—No person in charge of a motor vehicle shall cause or
allow the vehicle or any trailer to be abandoned or to remain at rest on any public place in such a position
or in such a condition or in such circumstances as to cause or likely to cause danger, obstruction or undue
inconvenience to other users of the public place or to the passengers.
123. Riding on running board, etc.—(1) No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall
carry any person or permit any person to be carried on the running board or otherwise than within the
body of the vehicle.
(2) No person shall travel on the running board or on the top or on the bonnet of a motor vehicle.
124. Prohibition against travelling without pass or ticket.—No person shall enter or remain in any
stage carriage for the purposes of travelling therein unless he has with him a proper pass or ticket:
Provided that where arrangements for the supply of tickets are made in the stage carriage by which a
person has to travel, a person may enter such stage carriage but as soon as may be after his entry therein,
be shall make the payment of his fare to the conductor or the driver who performs the functions of a
conductor and obtain from such conductor or driver, as the case may be, a ticket for his journey.
Explanation.—In this section,—
(a) “pass” means a duty, privilege or courtesy pass entitling the person to whom it is given to
travel in a stage carriage gratuitously and includes a pass issued on payment for travel in a stage
carriage for the period specified therein;
(b) “ticket” includes a single ticket, a return ticket or a season ticket.
125. Obstruction of driver.—No person driving a motor vehicle shall allow any person to stand or
sit or to place anything in such a manner or position as to hamper the driver in his control of the vehicle.
76126. Stationary vehicles.—No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall cause or allow the
vehicle to remain stationary in any public place, unless there is in the driver’s seat a person duly licensed
to drive the vehicle or unless the mechanism has been stopped and a brake or brakes applied or such other
measures taken as to ensure that the vehicle cannot accidentally be put in motion in the absence of the
driver.
127. Removal of motor vehicles abandoned or left unattended on a public place.— 1 [(1) Where
any motor vehicle is abandoned, or left unattended, on a public place for ten hours or more or is parked in
a place where parking is legally prohibited, its removal by a towing service or its immobilisations by any
means including wheel clamping may be authorised by a police officer in uniform having jurisdiction.]
(2) Where an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burnt or partially dismantled vehicle is creating a
traffic hazard, because of its position in relation to the 2 [public place], or its physical appearance is
causing the impediment to the traffic, its immediate removal from the 1 [public place] by a towing service
may be authorised by a police officer having jurisdiction.
(3) Where a vehicle is authorised to be removed under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) by a police
officer, the owner of the vehicle shall be responsible for all towing costs, besides any other penalty.
128. Safety measures for drivers and pillion riders.—(1) No driver of a two-wheeled motorcycle
shall carry more than one person in addition to himself on the motorcycle and no such person shall be
carried otherwise than sitting on a proper seat securely fixed to the motorcycle behind the driver’s seat
with appropriate safety measures.
(2) In addition to the safety measures mentioned in sub-section (1), the Central Government may,
prescribe other safety measures for the drivers of two-wheeled motorcycles and pillion riders thereon.
3
[129. Wearing of protective headgear.— Every person, above four years of age, driving or riding
or being carried on a motorcycle of any class or description shall, while in a public place, wear protective
headgear conforming to such standards as may be prescribed by the Central Government:
Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply to a person who is a Sikh, if, while driving
or riding on the motorcycle, in a public place, he is wearing a turban:
Provided further that the Central Government may by rules provide for measures for the safety of
children below four years of age riding or being carried on a motorcycle.
Explanation.— “Protective headgear” means a helmet which,—
(a) by virtue of its shape, material and construction, could reasonably be expected to afford to the
person driving or riding on a motorcycle a degree of protection from injury in the event of an
accident; and
(b) is securely fastened to the head of the wearer by means of straps or other fastenings provided
on the headgear.]
130. Duty to produce licence and certificate of registration.—(1) The driver of a motor vehicle in
any public place shall, on demand by any police officer in uniform, produce his licence for examination:
Provided that the driver may, if his licence has been submitted to, or has been seized by, any officer
or authority under this or any other Act, produce in lieu of the licence a receipt or other acknowledgment
issued by such officer or authority in respect thereof and thereafter produce the licence within such
period, in such manner as the Central Government may prescribe to the police officer making the
demand.
4
[(2) The conductor, if any, of a motor vehicle on any public place shall on demand by any officer of
the Motor Vehicles Department authorised in this behalf, produce the licence for examination.,(3) The owner of a motor vehicle (other than a vehicle registered under section 60), or in his
absence the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle, shall, on demand by a registering authority or
any other officer of the Motor Vehicles Department duly authorised in this behalf, produce the certificate
of insurance of the vehicle and, where the vehicle is a transport vehicle, also the certificate of fitness
referred to in section 56 and the permit; and if any or all of the certificates or the permit are not in his
possession, he shall, within fifteen days from the date of demand, submit photo copies of the same, duly
attested in person or send the same by registered post to the officer who demanded it.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, “certificate of insurance” means the certificate
issued under sub-section (3) of section 147.]
(4) If the licence referred to in sub-section (2) or the certificates or permit referred to in
sub-section (3), as the case may be, are not at the time in the possession of the person to whom demand is
made, it shall be a sufficient compliance with this section if such person produces the licence or
certificates or permit within such period in such manner as the Central Government may prescribe, to the
police officer or authority making the demand:
Provided that, except to such extent and with such modifications as may be prescribed, the provisions
of this sub-section shall not apply to any person required to produce the certificate of registration or the
certificate of fitness of a transport vehicle.
131. Duty of the driver to take certain precautions at unguarded railway level crossing.—Every
driver of a motor vehicle at the approach of any unguarded railway level crossing shall cause the vehicle
to stop and the driver of the vehicle shall cause the conductor or cleaner or attendant or any other person
in the vehicle to walk up to the level crossing and ensure that no train or trolley is approaching from
either side and then pilot the motor vehicle across such level crossing, and where no conductor or cleaner
or attendant or any other person is available in the vehicle, the driver of the vehicle shall get down from
the vehicle himself to ensure that no train or trolley is approaching from either side before the railway
track is crossed.
132. Duty of driver to stop in certain cases.—(1) The driver of a motor vehicle shall cause the
vehicle to stop and remain stationary so long as 2 [may for such reasonable time as may be necessary, but
not exceeding twenty-four hours]—
3
[(a) when required to do so by any police officer not below the rank of a Sub-Inspector in
uniform, in the event of the vehicle being involved in the occurrence of an accident to a person,
animal or vehicle or of damage to property, or]
(b) when required to do so by any person in charge of an animal if such person apprehends that
the animal is, or being alarmed by the vehicle will become, unmanageable, or
4
*
*
*
*
*
and he shall give his name and address and the name and address of the owner of the vehicle to any
person affected by any such accident or damage who demands it provided such person also furnishes his
name and address.
(2) The driver of a motor vehicle shall, on demand by a person giving his own name and address and
alleging that the driver has committed an offence punishable under section 184 give his name and address
to that person.
(3) In this section the expression “animal” means any horse, cattle, elephant, camel, ass, mule, sheep
or goat.
133. Duty of owner of motor vehicle to give information.—The owner of a motor vehicle, the
driver or conductor of which is accused of any offence under this Act shall, on the demand of any police
officer authorised in this behalf by the State Government, give all information regarding the name and
address of, and the licence held by, the driver or conductor which is in his possession or could by
reasonable diligence be ascertained by him.
78134. Duty of driver in case of accident and injury to a person.—When any person is injured or any
property of a third party is damaged, as a result of an accident in which a motor vehicle is involved, the
driver of the vehicle or other person in charge of the vehicle shall—
(a) unless it is not practicable to do so on account of mob fury or any other reason beyond his
control, take all reasonable steps to secure medical attention for the injured person, 1 [by conveying
him to the nearest medical practitioner or hospital, and it shall be the duty of every registered medical
practitioner or the doctor on the duty in the hospital immediately to attend to the injured person and
render medical aid or treatment without waiting for any procedural formalities], unless the injured
person or his guardian, in case he is a minor, desires otherwise;
(b) give on demand by a police officer any information required by him, or, if no police officer is
present, report the circumstances of the occurrence, including the circumstances, if any, for not taking
reasonable steps to secure medical attention as required under clause (a), at the nearest police station
as soon as possible, and in any case within twenty-four hours of the occurrence.
2
[(c) give the following information in writing to the insurer, who has issued the certificates of
insurance, about the occurrence of the accident, namely:—
(i) insurance policy number and period of its validity;
(ii) date, time and place of accident;
(iii) particulars of the persons injured or killed in the accident;
(iv) name of the driver and the particulars of his driving licence.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, the expression “driver” includes the owner of the
vehicle.]
3
[134A. Protection of Good Samaritans. —(1) A Good Samaritan shall not be liable for any civil or
criminal action for any injury to or death of the victim of an accident involving a motor vehicle, where
such injury or death resulted from the Good Samaritan’s negligence in acting or failing to act while
rendering emergency medical or non-medical care or assistance.
(2) The Central Government may by rules provide for the procedure for questioning or examination
of the Good Samaritan, disclosure of personal information of the Good Samaritan and such other related
matters.
Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, “Good Samaritan” means a person, who in good
faith, voluntarily and without expectation of any reward or compensation renders emergency medical or
non-medical care or assistance at the scene of an accident to the victim or transports such victim to the
hospital.]
135. Schemes to be framed for the investigation of accident cases and wayside amenities, etc.—
(1) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make one or more schemes to
provide for—
(a) an in depth study on causes and analysis of motor vehicle accidents;
(b) wayside amenities on highways;
(c) traffic aid posts on highways; 4 ***
(d) truck parking complexes along 5 [highways; and].
6
[(e) any other amenities in the interests of the safety and the convenience of the public.]
79(2) Every scheme made under this section by any State Government shall be laid, as soon as may be
after it is made, before the State Legislature.
1
[(3) The Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make one or more
schemes to conduct in-depth studies on the causes and analysis of road accidents.]
136. Inspection of vehicle involved in accident.—When any accident occurs in which a motor
vehicle is involved, any person authorised in this behalf by the State Government may, on production if
so required of his authority, inspect the vehicle and for that purpose may enter at any reasonable time any
premises where the vehicle may be, and may remove the vehicle for examination:
Provided that the place to which the vehicle is so removed shall be intimated to the owner of the
vehicle and the vehicle shall be returned 2 [after completion of the formalities to the owner, driver or the
person in charge of the vehicle within twenty-four hours].
3
[136A. Electronic monitoring and enforcement of road safety. —(1) The State Government shall
ensure electronic monitoring and enforcement of road safety in the manner provided under sub-section (2)
on national highways, state highways, roads or in any urban city within a State which has a population up
to such limits as may be prescribed by the Central Government.
(2) The Central Government shall make rules for the electronic monitoring and enforcement of road
safety including speed cameras, closed-circuit television cameras, speed guns, body wearable cameras
and such other technology.
Explanation.—For the purpose of this section the expression “body wearable camera” means a
mobile audio and video capture device worn on the body or uniform of a person authorised by the State
Government.]
137. Power of Central Government to make rules.—The Central Government may make rules to
provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:—
(a) the occasions on which signals shall be made by drivers of motor vehicles and such signals
under section 121;
4
[(aa) providing for the standards of protective headgear and measures for the safety of children
below the age of four years riding under section 129;]
(b) the manner in which the licences and certificates may be produced to the police officer under
section 130.
4
[(c) providing for limits of urban city by the State Governments under sub-section (1) of section
136A; and
(d) providing for electronic monitoring and enforcement under sub-section (2) of section 136A.]
138. Power of State Government to make rules.—(1) The State Government may make rules for
the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Chapter other than the matters specified in
section 137.
5
[(1A) The State Government may, in the interest of road safety, make rules for the purposes of
regulating the activities and access of non-mechanically propelled vehicles and pedestrians to public
places and national highways:
Provided that in the case of national highways, such rules shall be framed in consultation with the
National Highways Authority of India.]
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for—
80(a) the removal and the safe custody of vehicles including their loads which have broken down or
which have been left standing or have been abandoned on roads;
(b) the installation and use of weighing devices;
(c) the maintenance and management of wayside amenities complexes;
(d) the exemption from all or any of the provisions of this Chapter of fire brigade vehicles,
ambulances and other special classes or descriptions of vehicle, subject to such conditions as may be
prescribed;
(e) the maintenance and management of parking places and stands and the fees, if any, which may
be charged for their use;
(f) prohibiting the driving downhill of a motor vehicle with the gear disengaged either generally
or in a specified place;
(g) prohibiting the taking hold of or mounting of a motor vehicle in motion;
(h) prohibiting the use of foot-paths or pavements by motor vehicles;
(i) generally, the prevention of danger, injury or annoyance to the public or any person, or of
danger or injury to property or of abstruction to traffic; and
(j) any other matter which is to be, or may be, prescribed.